(1994). "Conference - Public Perceptions of Research and Quality Assurance." Science Communication 16(2): 221-222.
	
(1997). "Sciences in the south: Current issues, vol 6, 20th century sciences: Beyond the metropolis - French - Waast,R." Science Communication 18(4): 389-389.
	
(1997). "Utilization-focused evaluation: The new century text - Patton,MQ." Science Communication 18(4): 388-388.
	
(1997). "Fighting for survival: Environmental decline, social conflict, and the new age of insecurity - Renner,M." Science Communication 18(4): 389-389.
	
(1997). "International scientific cooperation - French - Gaillard,J." Science Communication 18(4): 387-387.
	
(1997). "Linking science and technology to society's environmental goals - Natl-Res-Council-Policy-Div." Science Communication 18(4): 388-388.
	
(1997). "Internationalism and science - Elzinga,A, Landstrom,C." Science Communication 18(4): 387-387.
	
(1997). "Unequal protection: Environmental justice and communities of color - Bullard,R." Science Communication 18(4): 385-386.
	
(1997). "Information, development and social intelligence - Cronin,B." Science Communication 18(4): 386-386.
	
(1997). "The scholar's courtesy: The role of acknowledgement in the primary communication process - Cronin,B." Science Communication 18(4): 386-387.
	
(1997). "Tough choices: Facing the challenges of food scarcity - Brown,LR." Science Communication 18(4): 385-385.
	
(1998). "Excerpts from science and engineering indicators 1998 - National Science Board." Science Communication 20(2): 262-267.	Excerpts from Science and Engineering Indicators 1998, the biennial report to Congress from the National Science Board present new data on public attitudes toward, and public understanding of; science. Selections from the new chapter on the economic and social significance of new information technologies (IT) are provided as well.

(1998). "World Science Report 1998." Science Communication 20(2): 268-269.
	
(1998). "Scientific opportunities and public needs: Improving priority setting and public input at the National Institutes of Health." Science Communication 20(2): 269-269.
	
(1998). "Knowledge diffusion in the US aerospace industry: Managing knowledge for competitive advantage." Science Communication 19(4): 393-394.
	
(1998). "Information seeking and subject representation: An activity-theoretical approach to information science." Science Communication 19(4): 394-394.
	
(1998). "Health communication: Lessons from family planning and reproductive health." Science Communication 19(4): 392-393.
	
(1998). "Ethical issues in physics: Workshop II proceedings." Science Communication 19(4): 394-395.
	
(1999). "Excerpts from the declaration of the second world conference of science journalists." Science Communication 21(2): 203-204.	Participants in the Second World Conference of Science Journalists in July approved a declaration that included eight recommendations and forwarded it to Federico Mayor, director-general of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Excerpts from the declaration appear below.

(1999). "Becoming more fluent with information technology." Science Communication 21(1): 96-97.
	
(2000). "Talking science: Video guide for effective professional science presentations." Science Communication 22(2): 235-235.
	
(2000). "Making environmental history relevant in the 21st century." Science Communication 22(2): 233-234.
	
(2000). "Information technology research needs to be expanded." Science Communication 22(2): 232-232.
	
(2000). "Technology and public participation." Science Communication 21(3): 313-313.
	
(2000). "Research into the ethics of Science and Technology Project." Science Communication 21(3): 312-312.
	
(2000). "US National Academies of Science and Engineering Internship Program." Science Communication 21(3): 311-312.
	
(2000). "Institute for Advanced Studies on Science, Technology, and Society international fellowships." Science Communication 21(3): 310-311.
	
(2010). "PRAXIS FORUM: Ken Burns' The National Parks: America's Best Idea." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(4): 461-461.
	
(2013). "Call for Proposals." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 642-642.
	
Abbott, E. A. (2012). "Communication Challenges and Convergence in Crop Biotechnology." Science Communication 34(4): 555-556.
	
AbiGhannam, N. (2016). "Madam Science Communicator: A Typology of Women's Experiences in Online Science Communication." Science Communication 38(4): 468-494.	This study uses discourse analysis to explore online science communication experiences from the perspectives of 43 female opinion leaders. Women described their experiences in terms of their lifelong love for science and their ever-growing interest in communication. For them, a career in science communication is a conscious career choice rather than an alternative career path. Communicators performed various functions depending on the sensitivity of their topics and whether their communications are self-focused or audience-focused. Accordingly, four types of science communicators emerged from the data: Expressive/Escapist, Advocate/Normalizer, Edutainer, and Performer/Sharer. This diversity challenges societal stereotypes that reduce female experiences in science.

Abrahamsen, E. B., et al. (2017). "A framework for selection of strategy for management of security measures." Journal of Risk Research 20(3): 404-417.	In this paper, we present and discuss a framework for security risk management, focusing on the selection of a management strategy for decision-making on security measures in particular. The framework provides guidance on the selection of a suitable type of management strategy for various types of decision-making contexts. An Information and Communication Technology case study is used to illustrate the practical implications of the framework.

Abrams, K. M., et al. (2015). "Communicating Sensitive Scientific Issues: The Interplay Between Values, Attitudes, and Euphemisms in Communicating Livestock Slaughter." Science Communication 37(4): 485-505.	In demands for transparency in livestock production, how should the industry deal with communicating the sensitive topic of slaughter? This study examined the different effects of livestock slaughter transparency (via video) on slaughter and transparency attitudes based on people's animal value orientation and the effects on the clarity and comfort of euphemisms. Findings indicated the video increased slaughter acceptance among all animal value orientations. All groups expected a high level of transparency from the industry regardless of the video. With respect to euphemisms, while slaughter was considered clearer, harvest was more comfortable.

Achterberg, P. (2014). "Knowing hydrogen and loving it too? Information provision, cultural predispositions, and support for hydrogen technology among the Dutch." Public Understanding of Science 23(4): 445-453.	This research note studies experimentally how the public translates information about hydrogen technology into evaluations of the latter. It does so by means of a nationally representative factorial survey in the Netherlands (n = 1,012), in which respondents have been given seven randomly selected pieces of (negative, positive and/or neutral) information about this technology. Findings are consistent with framing theory. For those with high trust in science and technology, positive information increases support, while negative information detracts from it. For those with low trust in science and technology, however, information provision has no effect at all on the evaluation of hydrogen technology. Precisely among the most likely targets of science communication, i.e., those without much trust in science and technology, providing positive information fails to evoke a more favorable evaluation from the latter.

Achterberg, P., et al. (2017). "A science confidence gap: Education, trust in scientific methods, and trust in scientific institutions in the United States, 2014." Public Understanding of Science 26(6): 704-720.	Following up on suggestions that attitudes toward science are multi-dimensional, we analyze nationally representative survey data collected in the United States in 2014 (N=2006), and demonstrate the existence of a science confidence gap: some people place great trust in scientific methods and principles, but simultaneously distrust scientific institutions. This science confidence gap is strongly associated with level of education: it is larger among the less educated than among the more educated. We investigate explanations for these educational differences. Whereas hypotheses deduced from reflexive-modernization theory do not pass the test, those derived from theorizing on the role of anomie are corroborated. The less educated are more anomic (they have more modernity-induced cultural discontents), which not only underlies their distrust in scientific institutions, but also fuels their trust in scientific methods and principles. This explains why this science confidence gap is most pronounced among the less educated.

Adams, P. C. and A. Gynnild (2013). "Environmental Messages in Online Media: The Role of Place." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(1): 113-130.	Online environmental messages are examined through the use of focus groups. These messages are derived from short online videos and an interactive Internet tool called the ecological footprint calculator. Subject responses are compared and contrasted across two axes of differentiation: Americans versus Norwegians, and journalism students versus petroleum engineering students. Responses of focus groups drawn from these four stakeholder types show the importance of place in online environmental communication. Place takes four general forms: (1) a dimension of the audience, (2) a dimension of the text, (3) an aspect of interactive online communication, and (4) a figurative understanding of social networks. In general, it is argued that effective online communication regarding environmental risks and problems requires sensitivity to these four different aspects of place. In particular, it is argued that place images in online videos should be carefully tailored to their social and geographical place of reception, including local environments but also geographical variations in environmental attitudes. In addition, interactive online simulations should be tailored to the user's sense of home, particularly attachment to one's nation-state. Similarly, efforts to promote pro-environment attitudes should make use of online social networks by treating them like places in their own right, with local norms and customs, ideals and ideologies. Based on this argument, a key finding of the study is that while responses to an interactive online footprint calculator are generally positive, and show benefits relative to online videos, the limited ability of users to select their (self-identified) home undermines the tool's effectiveness.

Adams, T. E. (2013). "A Complicated Reef: The Relationship Between a Representation and the Represented Phenomenon." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(3): 427-433.	In this study, I describe the relationship between the Florida Aquarium's representation of a coral reef and the live reef that served as the model for the representation. I specifically illustrate how naming practices complicate the aquarium's stated purpose of environmental education. I conclude by suggesting ways the aquarium and other pro-environmental facilities can better manage environmental representation.

Agyeman, J. (2007). "Communicating "just Sustainability"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(2): 119-122.	Somewhere about the middle of my keynote address to the 2007 Conference on Communication and the Environment (COCE) at De Paul University, Chicago, I made a statement and asked a question that I think gives a flavor of what I want to say in this Editorial. My statement was: "If communicating the dominant approach to sustainability namely reform or environmental sustainability is difficult, communicating transformative or just sustainability will require new voices, new thinking and new strategies.''
My question, pursuant to this statement, was: "Who's doing this now?''

Ahern, L. (2011). "The Current Environment of the Theory-Practice Divide." Science Communication 33(1): 120-129.
	
Ahern, L., et al. (2016). "Worldviews, Issue Knowledge, and the Pollution of a Local Science Information Environment." Science Communication 38(2): 228-250.	Research in motivated reasoning supports the notion that sociopolitical identity moderates the impact of knowledge on attitudes toward science issues. However, science knowledge and sociopolitical orientation have been measured in different ways, and the results have not been entirely consistent. In this study, 964 adults participated in an online survey-experiment examining their reactions to a message about local water quality. Results show that while issue-specific knowledge predicts increased environmental science public policy support, polluting the information environment with already politicized message frames activates sociopolitical orientation as a moderator and, among certain groups, reverses the direction of the relationship.

Ahmad, R., et al. (2010). "Analysis of an innovative survey platform: comparison of the public's responses to human health and salmon genomics surveys." Public Understanding of Science 19(2): 155-165.	This paper presents the results of the first two surveys conducted using the innovative NERD (Norms Evolving in Response to Dilemmas) platform. The structure, results, and analysis of the first two NERD surveys on genomics and human health and salmon genomics are compared. This comparison demonstrates that NERD is a cost-effective and efficient public consultation and experimental tool that has provided insight on public acceptance of new technologies such as genomics.

Ahola, S. (2017). "Why (not) disagree? Human values and the readiness to question experts' views." Public Understanding of Science 26(3): 339-354.	Whether people blindly trust experts on all occasions or whether they evaluate experts' views and question them if necessary is a vital question. This study investigates associations of human values with the readiness to question experts' views and one's reasons for not disagreeing with experts among randomly sampled Finns. Readiness to question experts' views and one's reasons for not disagreeing were inferred from self-reported written accounts. Value priorities were measured with Schwartz et al.'s Portrait Values Questionnaire and Wach and Hammer's items concerning rational and non-rational truth. The results showed that after adjusting for the effects of age, sex and education, the values of power and rational truth were positively associated, whereas the values of security, conformity and tradition were negatively associated with readiness to question experts' views. Furthermore, the analysis indicated that the reasons for not disagreeing with experts were related to individual factors, situational factors, social risks and views about experts.

Ahson, K. (1998). "Biotechnology unzipped: Promises and realities." Public Understanding of Science 7(3): 256-257.
	
Akerlof, K. (2011). "A Vast Machine: Computer Models, Climate Data, and the Politics of Global Warming." Science Communication 33(2): 266-267.
	
Alario, M. V. and W. W. Freudenburg (2006). "High-risk technology, legitimacy and science: The US search for energy policy consensus." Journal of Risk Research 9(7): 737-753.	Since the 1980s, a growing body of social scientific research has focused on the organizational character of the institutions that are responsible for the management and functioning of high-risk technological systems. While there are differences among the social theories of risks that have developed on both sides of the Atlantic, much of the work offers warnings that are relevant to public policy. The warnings have largely been ignored in recent U. S. policy decisions, as illustrated most clearly by the U. S. Energy Act of 2005, which largely overlooks important questions regarding the environmental and technological risks of the technologies favored by the Act. Sociological work suggests that the scientific systems that have been instrumental in the legitimization process of high-risk technological options of energy, more broadly, should be examined in connection with the societal institutions having responsibility for transparency, safety, and environmental protection.

Alcibar, M. (2008). "Human Cloning and the Raelians Media Coverage and the Rhetoric of Science." Science Communication 30(2): 236-265.	In this article, the author analyzes the reported coverage on human cloning and the Raelians in the Spanish newspaper El Pais. On December 27, 2002, Brigitte Boisselier, the director of the biotechnology company Clonaid, part of the International Raelian Movement, announced they had successfully cloned a baby girl. This news report enlivened the controversy on human cloning, which originated in February 1997 with the news of Dolly's birth. El Pais constructed the controversy as a fundamental problem of scientific policy. This study suggests that El Pais wants to persuade policy makers to establish limited regulations on experimentation with embryo stem cells for therapeutic purposes. To achieve this goal, this newspaper used scientific sources selected ad hoc and a series of well-defined rhetorical strategies.

Alcibar, M. (2018). "Information visualisation as a resource for popularising the technical-biomedical aspects of the last Ebola virus epidemic: The case of the Spanish reference press." Public Understanding of Science 27(3): 365-381.	This study explores the role that information visualisation played in the popularisation of the technical-biomedical aspects of the last Ebola virus epidemic, the most devastating to date. Applying content analysis methods, the total population of information visualisations (N=209) was coded and analysed to identify topics, and to define features and identify patterns in the images. The corpus was based on the record of articles with graphics appearing in five Spanish reference newspapers from 22 March 2014 to 13 January 2016, the start and suppression of the epidemic, respectively. The results suggest that information visualisation was a key factor in the popularisation of the epidemic's technical-biomedical aspects, as well as contributing actively to construct, in the words of Myers, a narrative of nature.

Alexander, C. and J. M. Sarabia (2012). "Quantile Uncertainty and Value-at-Risk Model Risk." Risk Analysis 32(8): 1293-1308.	This article develops a methodology for quantifying model risk in quantile risk estimates. The application of quantile estimates to risk assessment has become common practice in many disciplines, including hydrology, climate change, statistical process control, insurance and actuarial science, and the uncertainty surrounding these estimates has long been recognized. Our work is particularly important in finance, where quantile estimates (called Value-at-Risk) have been the cornerstone of banking risk management since the mid 1980s. A recent amendment to the Basel II Accord recommends additional market risk capital to cover all sources of model risk in the estimation of these quantiles. We provide a novel and elegant framework whereby quantile estimates are adjusted for model risk, relative to a benchmark which represents the state of knowledge of the authority that is responsible for model risk. A simulation experiment in which the degree of model risk is controlled illustrates how to quantify Value-at-Risk model risk and compute the required regulatory capital add-on for banks. An empirical example based on real data shows how the methodology can be put into practice, using only two time series (daily Value-at-Risk and daily profit and loss) from a large bank. We conclude with a discussion of potential applications to nonfinancial risks.

Allan, S. (2011). "Embargoed Science." Public Understanding of Science 20(2): 287-288.
	
Allan, S., et al. (2010). "Framing risk: nanotechnologies in the news." Journal of Risk Research 13(1): 29-44.	The concept of 'framing' is being increasingly recognised as a useful means of characterising the social relations of representation shaping the news reporting of science and risk. In theoretical terms, framing is often described as a discursive strategy utilised by journalists to define the nature of a particular event, a complex process with important implications for how certain occurrences are selected as newsworthy, the conventions guiding the ways in which they are reported and the possible consequences for influencing public perceptions. Focusing on the news reporting of nanotechnologies, this paper explores the relative advantages and limitations of 'framing'. It draws on data from two UK studies, one examining news media production of nanotechnologies and the other examining scientists' and policy-makers' views on the future applications of nanotechnologies. We highlight the key role played by scientists as news sources and hence potentially influential actors in issue definition. We argue that risk researchers need to pay closer attention to the behind-the-scenes politics of framing, whereby competing claims-makers seek to establish their own particular interpretation of the situation.

Allen, M. P. (2018). "Chronicling the Risk and Risk Communication by Governmental Officials During the Zika Threat." Risk Analysis 38(12): 2507-2513.	The unique circumstances surrounding Zika, including the fact that it is both mosquito-borne and sexually transmissible, brought to the fore concerns about optimal ways to communicate risk in an environment characterized by rapidly evolving knowledge. The difficulty in doing so is magnified by the fact that science-based health messages from governmental agencies must be developed in an evidence-based, audience-participative, and collaborative manner. A recent reminder in JAMA asserted the importance of preparing now for future threats. Understanding how the knowledge and messaging about Zika changed across time should help public health officials prepare for such challenges.

Allen, W. L. (2018). "Visual brokerage: Communicating data and research through visualisation." Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 906-922.	Researchers increasingly use visualisation to make sense of their data and communicate findings more widely. But these are not necessarily straightforward processes. Theories of knowledge brokerage show how sociopolitical contexts and intermediary organisations that translate research for public audiences shape how users engage with evidence. Applying these ideas to data visualisation, I argue that several kinds of brokers (such as data collectors, designers and intermediaries) link researchers and audiences, contributing to the ways that people engage with visualisations. To do this, I draw on qualitative focus groups that elicited non-academic viewers' reactions to visualisations of data about UK migration. The results reveal two important features of engagement: perceptions of brokers' credibility and feelings of surprise arising from visualisations' content and design. I conclude by arguing that researchers, knowledge brokers and the public produce - as well as operate within - a complex visualisation space characterised by mutual, bi-directional connections.

Allgaier, J. (2012). "Networking expertise: Discursive coalitions and collaborative networks of experts in a public creationism controversy in the UK." Public Understanding of Science 21(3): 299-313.	Experts do play a particular role in public socio-scientific debates, even more so if they form heterogeneous coalition with other actors and experts. A case study about a public science education controversy surrounding the teaching of evolution/creationism in the UK press is used to investigate in detail how connections and coalitions between experts and other actors involved in the controversy emerged and played out. The research focuses on the question of what role collaborative and other networks of experts played in terms of influence, visibility, credibility, consensus and weight of argument. Issues that are considered in the research are the status of the members of the coalitions forming during the debate and how it is displayed in media representations and letters and petitions, and also how these networks and coalitions of experts perform in relation to each other.

Allgaier, J. (2013). "On the Shoulders of YouTube: Science in Music Videos." Science Communication 35(2): 266-275.	Music videos are about many topics, and some are about science and technology. In this commentary, the author explores what kinds of music videos about science are available and how they could be categorized. It is argued that music videos could be helpful tools for science communication and science education. However, people who reject scientific information and results are also using music videos to publicize their views. Research on the subject is still very sparse. The science communication community needs a better understanding of the practices of online video sharing and the effects of music videos about science.

Allmon, W. D. (2002). "The fate of the mammoth." Public Understanding of Science 11(4): 393-394.
	
Allspaw, K. M. (2004). "Engaging the public in the regulation of xenotransplantation: would the Canadian model of public consultation be effective in the US?" Public Understanding of Science 13(4): 417-428.	The value of engaging the public in science policymaking is becoming increasingly controversial. In the US, however, the regulation of biotechnologies remains in the domain of the scientific elite. By contrast, Canada recently conducted a very public process aimed at including the public in the regulation of xenotransplantation. Members of the US xenotransplantation community were asked to comment on the public consultation process with specific attention given to the Canadian consultation on xenotransplantation. These scientists agreed that gathering public opinion is usually desirable but expressed some serious concerns about the methods used to gather these opinions. They challenged the notion of an informed public as defined by the organizers of the Canadian consultation. Therefore, in order for the Canadian model of public consultation to be well received in the US, there would have to be more stringent adherence to representative sampling and more rigorous public education strategies.

Allum, N. (2007). "An empirical test of competing theories of hazard-related trust: The case of GM food." Risk Analysis 27(4): 935-946.	Few scholars doubt the importance of trust in explaining variation in public perception of technological risk. Relatively little, however, is known about the particular types of judgments that people use in granting or withholding trust. This article presents findings from an empirical study that explores several dimensions of trust relevant for citizens' judgments of scientists involved in the development of GM food. The relationship between particular dimensions of trust and perceptions of GM food risk is also explored, using structural equation modeling. Results suggest that trust judgments based on the perception of shared values are most important in relation to GM food risk, but that judgments about scientists' technical competence are also important.

Allum, N. (2011). "What Makes Some People Think Astrology Is Scientific?" Science Communication 33(3): 341-366.	Citizens in both North America and Europe are apt to read horoscope columns in newspapers and magazines. While some people read these casually and purely for entertainment, some believe that astrology has scientific status and can provide real insight into events and personality. Using data from a European survey, this article explores some of the reasons why some people think that astrology is scientific and how astrology is viewed in relation to other knowledge-producing practices. Three hypotheses in particular are tested. The first is that some Europeans lack the necessary scientific literacy to distinguish science from pseudoscience. The second is that people are confused about what astrology actually is. The third is derived from Adorno's work on authoritarianism and the occult and postulates that those who adhere to authoritarian values are more likely to believe in astrological claims. Support is found for all three hypotheses.

Allum, N., et al. (2014). "Religious beliefs, knowledge about science and attitudes towards medical genetics." Public Understanding of Science 23(7): 833-849.	The use of genetics in medical research is one of the most important avenues currently being explored to enhance human health. For some, the idea that we can intervene in the mechanisms of human existence at such a fundamental level can be at minimum worrying and at most repugnant. In particular, religious doctrines are likely to collide with the rapidly advancing capability for science to make such interventions. The key ingredient for acceptance of genetics, on the other hand, is prototypically assumed to be scientific literacy - familiarity and understanding of the critical facts and methods of science. However, this binary opposition between science and religion runs counter to what is often found in practice. In this paper, we examine the association between religiosity, science knowledge and attitudes to medical genetics amongst the British public. In particular, we test the hypothesis that religion acts as a 'perceptual filter' through which citizens acquire and use scientific knowledge in the formation of attitudes towards medical genetics in various ways.

Allum, N., et al. (2008). "Science knowledge and attitudes across cultures: a meta-analysis." Public Understanding of Science 17(1): 35-54.	The correlation between knowledge and attitudes has been the source of controversy in research on the public understanding of science ( PUS). Although many studies, both quantitative and qualitative, have examined this issue, the results are at best diverse and at worst contradictory. In this paper, we review the evidence on the relationship between public attitudes and public knowledge about science across 40 countries using a meta-analytic approach. We fit multilevel models to data from 193 nationally representative surveys on PUS carried out since 1989. We find a small positive correlation between general attitudes towards science and general knowledge of scientific facts, after controlling for a range of possible confounding variables. This general relationship varies little across cultures but more substantially between different domains of science and technology. Our results suggest that PUS research needs to focus on understanding the mechanisms that underlie the clear association that exists between knowledge and attitudes about science.

Almeida, C. and L. Massarani (2018). "Farmers prevailing perception profiles regarding GM crops: A classification proposal." Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 952-966.	Genetically modified organisms have been at the centre of a major public controversy, involving different interests and actors. While much attention has been devoted to consumer views on genetically modified food, there have been few attempts to understand the perceptions of genetically modified technology among farmers. By investigating perceptions of genetically modified organisms among Brazilian farmers, we intend to contribute towards filling this gap and thereby add the views of this stakeholder group to the genetically modified debate. A comparative analysis of our data and data from other studies indicate there is a complex variety of views on genetically modified organisms among farmers. Despite this diversity, we found variations in such views occur within limited parameters, concerned principally with expectations or concrete experiences regarding the advantages of genetically modified crops, perceptions of risks associated with them, and ethical questions they raise. We then propose a classification of prevailing profiles to represent the spectrum of perceptions of genetically modified organisms among farmers.

Almiron, N. and M. Zoppeddu (2015). "Eating Meat and Climate Change: The Media Blind Spot-A Study of Spanish and Italian Press Coverage." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 307-325.	There is strong evidence that a meat and dairy-based diet is a very important contributor to climate change. However, the correlation between the production and consumption of livestock and anthropogenic climate change has received minimal media coverage. The literature for English-speaking countries shows a sort of media blind spot for meat in that the news media barely address, or do not address, the responsibility of individuals' dietary choices with regard to this issue. In this paper, we provide data for press coverage in Southern Europe from a sample of the top 10 Spanish and Italian newspapers for a seven-year period (2006-2013). Data from our samples correlate with findings from previous studies. However, our comparative study suggests that there are also meaningful differences between both countries studied while their alleged Mediterranean dietary background makes no difference in terms of ethical or dietary sensitivity.

Alsop, S. (1999). "Understanding understanding: a model for the public learning of radioactivity." Public Understanding of Science 8(4): 267-284.	While much of the work in the public understanding of science has focused on the public's appreciation of science and their familiarity with key scientific concepts, understanding the processes involved in learning science has largely been ignored. This article documents a study of how particular members of the public learn about radiation and radioactivity and proposes a model to describe their learning-the Informal Conceptual Change Model [ICCM]. ICCM is a multidimensional framework that incorporates three theoretical dimensions-the cognitive, conative, and affective. The paper documents each of these dimensions, and then illustrates the model by drawing upon data collected in a case study. The emphasis of the analysis is on understanding how the members of the public living in an area with high levels of background radiation learn about the science of this potential health threat. The summarizing comments examine the need for a greater awareness of the complexities;of informal learning.

Alsop, S. (2001). "The social shaping of technology, 2nd edition." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 251-252.
	
Amara, N., et al. (2004). "New evidence on instrumental, conceptual, and symbolic utilization of university research in government agencies." Science Communication 26(1): 75-106.	This article addresses three questions: What is the extent of instrumental, conceptual, and symbolic use of university research in government agencies? Are there differences between the policy domains in regard to the extent of each type of use? What are the determinants of instrumental, conceptual, and symbolic use of university research? Based on a survey of 833 government officials, the results suggest that (1) the three types of use of research simultaneously play a significant role in government agencies, (2) there are large differences between policy domains in regard to research utilization, and (3) a small number of determinants explain the increase of instrumental, conceptual, and symbolic utilization of research in a different way.

Amberg, S. M. and T. E. Hall (2010). "Precision and Rhetoric in Media Reporting About Contamination in Farmed Salmon." Science Communication 32(4): 489-513.	This study examined how health risks and benefits are presented in newsprint stories about contamination in farmed salmon. Following recent research, the quality of information was captured as the level of numerical and contextual precision. The authors supplemented and critiqued this analysis with an examination of rhetorical markers of certainty and magnitude. In a census of 83 stories focusing on two research studies, most statements presented information in a qualitative format, deemed to be the least informative for readers, although most stories contained a limited amount of high-precision information, generally as guidelines for consumers. However, journalists' rhetorical practices conveyed conflicting interpretations of the same data, leading to inconclusive messages about risks and benefits. Even highly precise numeric data were often presented in ways that were likely to confuse readers. Results illustrate a need to go beyond analyzing precision levels when studying how the media present scientific research with implications for consumer health, as rhetorical formulations change the meaning of risk statements.

Amend, E. and D. M. Secko (2012). "In the Face of Critique: A Metasynthesis of the Experiences of Journalists Covering Health and Science." Science Communication 34(2): 241-282.	The qualitative literature related to health and science journalism often states that little is known about the perspectives of journalists. This is, in part, because of individual studies being like scattered pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. In this article, the authors report the results of a qualitative meta-synthesis aimed at reassembling the qualitative literature involving health and science journalists. Comprehensive literature searches gave a data set of 21 studies whose synthesis produced 14 metathemes and four taxonomic groupings. This synthesis is used to show the state of qualitative knowledge and the potential for future research.

Amin, L., et al. (2011). "Factors influencing Malaysian public attitudes to agro-biotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 20(5): 674-689.	Despite considerable research in advanced countries on public perceptions of and attitudes to modern biotechnology, limited effort has been geared towards developing a structural model of public attitudes to modern biotechnology. The purpose of this paper is to identify the relevant factors influencing public attitudes towards genetically modified (GM) soybean, and to analyze the relationship between all the attitudinal factors. A survey was carried out on 1,017 respondents from various stakeholder groups in the Klang Valley region. Results of the survey have confirmed that attitudes towards complex issues such as biotechnology should be seen as a multifaceted process. The most important factors predicting support for GM soybean are the specific application-linked perceptions about the benefits, acceptance of risk and moral concern while risk and familiarity are significant predictors of benefit and risk acceptance. Attitudes towards GM soybean are also predicted by several general classes of attitude.

Amorese, V. (2009). "Science for Sale: the Perils, Rewards and Delusion of Campus Capitalism." Public Understanding of Science 18(3): 372-373.
	
Ampollini, I. (2018). "1773: France starts to discuss how to communicate risk." Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 1003-1008.
	
Anagondahalli, D. and M. M. Turner (2012). "Predicting Psychological Ripple Effects: The Role of Cultural Identity, In-Group/Out-Group Identification, and Attributions of Blame in Crisis Communication." Risk Analysis 32(4): 695-712.	Incidents of intentional food contamination can produce ripple effects in consumers such as reduced trust and increased anxiety. In their postcrisis communication, food companies often direct the blame at the perpetrator in an effort to mitigate potential losses and regain consumer trust. The attempt to placate consumers may, in itself, potentially create psychological ripple effects in message readers. This study examined the interacting influence of two message characteristics: identity of the perpetrator of the crime (in-group/out-group membership), and the attribution of blame (reason why the perpetrator committed the crime), with message receiver characteristic (cultural identity) on psychological ripple effects such as blame, trust, anxiety, and future purchase intention. Results indicated that although group membership of the perpetrator was not significant in predicting outcomes for the organization, the attribution communicated in the message was. American message receivers blamed the organization more and trusted it less when personal dispositional attributions were made about the perpetrator. Asian message receivers blamed the organization more and trusted it less when situational attributions were made about the perpetrator. Lowered trust in the company and increased anxiety correlated with lower purchase intent for both American and Asian message receivers. Implications for crisis message design are discussed.

Ancillotti, M., et al. (2017). "Uncritical and unbalanced coverage of synthetic biology in the Nordic press." Public Understanding of Science 26(2): 235-250.	Synthetic biology will probably have a high impact on a variety of fields, such as healthcare, environment, biofuels, agriculture, and so on. A driving theme in European research policy is the importance of maintaining public legitimacy and support. Media can influence public attitudes and are therefore an important object of study. Through qualitative content analysis, this study investigates the press coverage of synthetic biology in the major Nordic countries between 2009 and 2014. The press coverage was found to be event-driven and there were striking similarities between countries when it comes to framing, language use, and treated themes. Reporters showed a marked dependence on their sources, mainly scientists and stakeholders, who thus drives the media agenda. The media portrayal was very positive, with an optimistic look at future benefits and very little discussion of possible risks.

Andersen, N. B. (2016). ""Dioxins are the easiest topic to mention": Resident activists' construction of knowledge about low-level exposure to toxic chemicals." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 303-316.	This article discusses how residents in a local area contributed to the construction of knowledge in regard to scientific assessments in relation to a fire in a storage dump of burnable waste. Building on analytical concepts primarily from Social Worlds theory as well as some concepts from Actor-Network Theory, the analysis shows how dissent and a number of scientific controversies were initiated by some residents living nearby the waste dump who proved to be excellent network builders and who built a number of alliances with media and independent scientists, thus questioning the authorities' and their experts' legitimacy. Furthermore, the situated analysis identifies how a few personsnot very organizedwere able to create a debate about scientific matters using their combined resources and strong alliance-building abilities, thus proving that in some cases there is no need for a higher level of organization.

Anderson, A. (2014). "Untitled." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(1): 1-2.
	
Anderson, A. (2015). "Reflections on Environmental Communication and the Challenges of a New Research Agenda." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 379-383.
	
Anderson, A., et al. (2005). "The framing of nanotechnologies in the British newspaper press." Science Communication 27(2): 200-220.	This article investigates how developments in nanotechnology were framed in the British national newspaper press during a formative period in their rising public salience. Specifically, an intervention by Prince Charles in April 2003 is shown to have acted as the principal catalyst for much of the ensuing newspaper reporting over the next fifteen months. This study, in taking as its focus the operation of specific news frames, identifies a range of factors that shaped the initial terms of the subsequent debate (between both advocates and critics of nanotechnology)from one newspaper to the next during this period The analysis suggests that the involvement of a celebrity may play a crucial role in enhancing the newsworthiness of an issue and influencing its subsequent framing in the newspaper press.

Anderson, A. and A. Marhadour (2007). "Slick PR? The media politics of the Prestige oil spill." Science Communication 29(1): 96-115.	This article examines the different ways in which Spanish, French, and U.K. newspapers framed the Prestige oil spill. In contrast to earlier large oil spills such as the Torrey Canyon, the Internet had a significant influence upon mainstream news coverage and the coordination of protest activities. The findings suggest that the local Spanish press provided the most sustained coverage, and geographic propinquity to the accident was a good predictor of the frequency and intensity of reporting. The regional Spanish press focused upon implications for the local economy rather than the effects on wildlife. In contrast, the sampled national newspapers in Spain, France, and the United Kingdom framed the oil spill in terms of its ecological impacts and the political controversy regarding who was to blame. The implications of these differences are discussed and considered in relation to the globalization of news and the changing politics of risk.

Anderson, A. A. and A. B. Becker (2018). "Not Just Funny After All: Sarcasm as a Catalyst for Public Engagement With Climate Change." Science Communication 40(4): 524-540.	Sarcastic content is prevalent in online social media, although little research has explored its effects. In this study, we examine how exposure to one-sided versus two-sided sarcastic perspectives on climate change shapes beliefs about climate change. We find that exposure to one-sided messages that use irony to deride those who believe that climate change is a hoax (presented in The Onion) raises belief certainty in and perceived risk of climate change for those who do not already believe climate change is an important issue (N = 141). The two-sided message (presented by The Weather Channel) does not show any effects.

Anderson, A. A., et al. (2013). "Information beyond the forum: Motivations, strategies, and impacts of citizen participants seeking information during a consensus conference." Public Understanding of Science 22(8): 955-970.	During traditional consensus conferences, organizers control the formal information available to participantsby compiling structured background materials and recruiting expert panelists. Less formally, however, participants are encouraged to bring their own experiences into the deliberations, and in doing so, they often seek outside information. We explore this heretofore understudied phenomenon of information seeking during a deliberative event: the U.S. National Citizens' Technology Forum (2008), which addressed the convergence of nanotechnology, biotechnology, information technology, and cognitive science on the potential development of human-enhancement technologies. Through interviews with participants and observation of in-person and online deliberations, we identify outside information-seeking strategies and motivations. Our study demonstrates that conceptualizing models of deliberation as standalone settings of communication exchange ignores the reality of the complex information environment from which deliberative participants draw when making sense of technical issues. Future citizen deliberations must incorporate outside information seeking in the design of the exercises.

Anderson, A. A. and H. E. Huntington (2017). "Social Media, Science, and Attack Discourse: How Twitter Discussions of Climate Change Use Sarcasm and Incivility." Science Communication 39(5): 598-620.	Conflict in online discussions of science has the potential to polarize individuals' perceptions of science, yet science communication scholarship has paid little attention to systematic study of how verbal attacks play out in online discussions of science. This study analyzes sarcasm and incivility in Twitter discussions of climate change during an extreme weather event (n = 4,094). We found instances of incivility and sarcasm were low overall. Incivility was used in association with political topics, and both incivility and sarcasm were used alongside skeptical perspectives of climate change and by those who mention right-leaning politics in their profiles.

Anderson, C., et al. (2011). "The National DNA Database on trial: engaging young people in South Wales with genetics." Public Understanding of Science 20(2): 146-162.	While there has been research conducted on public views about ethical and social aspects of the National DNA Database (NDNAD), there is little which focuses on views of young people, in particular those whose details are held on the NDNAD. We describe an engagement activity developed in South Wales to engage young offenders with ethical and social issues surrounding the NDNAD - a Mock Trial - and how we facilitated the presentation of their views to policy makers. We discuss the successes and challenges we encountered with engaging young offenders, decisions that the young people reached about possible future policies for the NDNAD at the Mock Trial, and their contribution to the decision-making process.

Anderson, D., et al. (2018). "Fanning the Blame: Media Accountability, Climate and Crisis on the Australian "Fire Continent"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(7): 928-941.	This paper raises questions of media coverage of "compounded crises" related to extreme weather disaster, in the context of urgent calls to address the implications of a changing climate. Through media analysis, it examines the ways debate over bushfire protection policy was framed and made culturally meaningful, thereby politically consequential, in the wake of the worst bushfires in modern Australian history, Black Saturday (2009). The fires, in which 173 people died, led to a Royal Commission and fierce debate over the use of prescribed burning to reduce bushfire hazard. Longitudinal analysis of local, state and national mainstream media coverage (2009-2016) reveals blame games that targeted environmentalists and the government, which near-silenced meaningful discussion of the complexity of fire science, impacts of climate change on weather conditions, and calls for adaptation. By exploring the media's constitutive role in crisis response, the paper highlights the legacy and potency of ideological conflict that shapes the media-policy nexus in Australia.

Anderson, K. (2015). "Comment on paper ` Effective risk communication and CCS: the road to success in Europe'." Journal of Risk Research 18(6): 706-709.
	
Anderson-Wilk, M. (2011). "The Collector: David Douglas and the Natural History of the Northwest." Science Communication 33(1): 136-137.
	
Andersson, L. (2017). "Where Technology Goes to Die: Representations of Electronic Waste in Global Television News." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(2): 263-275.	This article analyzes how electronic waste (e-waste) gets represented in television news stories. The main objective is to present a perspective on how a "low-frequency" emergency (i.e. a lengthy and ongoing state of environmental emergency) is presented as a newsworthy issue. Drawing on literature on televised "distant suffering," the article engages in a multimodal text analysis of four news stories about e-waste. The findings show how on-location reports from e-waste dumping sites make use of sublime imagery in the visual representations; how e-waste dumping sites are presented as strange spaces, with no clear and comprehensible history; and finally, that the representations suggest an ambivalence and uncertainty when it comes to agency (who is responsible and what can be done?). The article ends with a discussion of the implications of this mode of representation and its effectiveness in eliciting an appropriate response to the harms caused by e-waste.

Andreasen, M. (2010). "Two stories about biotech patenting from the "silent majority" in Europe." Public Understanding of Science 19(3): 355-371.	Two decades of intensive policy controversy over the patenting of biotechnological inventions have left largely unexamined what the general public in Europe believes to be at stake. The paper presents the first European interview data with a primary focus on how members of "the silent majority" understand biotech patenting. Group discussions witness a polarization involving contrasting views of the role of patents in society; first, a libertarian view focusing on e. g. rights and merit; second, a communitarian view focusing on e.g. equality and public welfare. I suggest that these positions, which have long historical roots, are expressions of more fundamental ideas about what "Good Society" is.

Angman, E. (2013). "Was This Just for Show? Discursive Opening and Closure in a Public Participatory Process." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(3): 409-426.	A focus on communication can provide in-depth understanding of public participation in natural resource management. Analysis of empirical material from a participatory process using the theoretical concepts of discursive closure and discursive opening revealed that openings were achieved, but the perspectives represented in the process were also closed down. The reasons for closures are discussed in terms of structural constraints, with participants shown to have many different constraints and different reasons for making closures. The conclusion is that the type of theoretical analysis presented in this paper could be used by a facilitator in meetings as a participatory tool to investigate closures and open them up to achieve a more deliberative process.

Ankney, R. N., et al. (1996). "Newspaper coverage of the coronary artery bypass grafting report." Science Communication 18(2): 153-164.	The accuracy of medical stories in newspapers is a controversial issue. This study evaluated the accuracy of newspaper reports on an annual consumer report that reports the expected number of deaths following bypass surgery conducted in Pennsylvania hospitals. Analysis of 42 articles published following the 1994 report identified 52 factual errors, 127 mistakes in technical terms, 29 misspellings of proper names, and 7 misquotations. Daily newspapers averaged 5.61 errors per article, weekly newspapers averaged 4.33 errors per article, and trade publications averaged 2.83 errors per article. The authors conclude that trade publications appear to have provided the most accurate coverage and recommend development of a voluntary certification program for science reporters and that scientists be encouraged to seek additional training in newspaper relations.

Ansley, D. (2002). "You've been had! How the media and environmentalists turned America into a nation of hypochondriacs." Public Understanding of Science 11(4): 394-395.
	
Antilla, L. (2010). "Self-censorship and science: a geographical review of media coverage of climate tipping points." Public Understanding of Science 19(2): 240-256.	Public perception of global climate change is strongly influenced by media constructions of scientific knowledge. This paper explores recent scientific findings and the press coverage thereof and is based on a content analysis of two years of global reporting on climate related positive feedback mechanisms (climate system responses to global warming which lead to further warming). Results indicate that non-US news organizations, especially in the UK, are at the forefront of the discourse on climate feedback loops. Poor US press coverage on such climate thresholds might be understood not only as self-censorship, but as a "false negative" error.

Antilla, L. (2012). "Who Speaks for the Climate? Making Sense of Media Reporting on Climate Change." Science Communication 34(3): 429-430.
	
Antilla, L. (2014). "Climate change in the media: reporting risk and uncertainty." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(4): 551-553.
	
Antilla, L. (2016). "Rethinking climate change research." Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 262-262.
	
Appiah, B., et al. (2015). "Science reporting in Accra, Ghana: Sources, barriers and motivational factors." Public Understanding of Science 24(1): 23-37.	In Ghana, as in many other developing countries, most science reporting is done by general reporters. However, few studies have investigated science reporting in such a situation. To understand better the dynamics of science reporting in such context, we surveyed 151 general reporters in Ghana. Respondents' demographic characteristics resembled those found in studies elsewhere. Respondents perceived health professionals and scientists as very important sources of information for reporting science. There was an inverse correlation between journalism experience and the number of science feature stories reported in the past 12 months (p = .017). Most respondents indicated that science journalism training would motivate them to report science more. Likewise, most reported that easier access to research findings would do so. We identify characteristics of reporters, media, scientific, and training institutions that are important influences of Ghanaian reporters' coverage of science. We provide recommendations for advancing science reporting in Ghana.

Arcand, K. K. and M. Watzke (2011). "Creating Public Science With the From Earth to the Universe Project." Science Communication 33(3): 398-407.	The authors propose formalizing an entity for the sciences and science communication that is akin to public art in the humanities: public science. Public science might be able to play a role in enhancing and supporting society's relationship with science by embedding science content into everyday experiences. The authors examine one project and its potential impact in public science. From Earth to the Universe has placed astronomy images in "nontraditional" science communication venues such as parks and airports. From Earth to the Universe could serve as a model for a type of public science, an attempt to make science accessible to nonexperts in public spaces.

Arendt, F. and J. Matthes (2016). "Nature Documentaries, Connectedness to Nature, and Pro-environmental Behavior." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(4): 453-472.	We investigate the effects of nature documentaries on pro-environmental cognition and behavior. Of central interest is the concept of connectedness to nature, which describes an individual's sense of being connected to nature. Based on previous research showing that a direct nature experience in zoos can increase connectedness to nature, we questioned whether watching a nature documentary could increase connectedness to nature and pro-environmental behavior. An experiment using one control group (watching a documentary about Einstein's theory of relativity) and one treatment group (watching a nature documentary) revealed that a mediated nature experience is not sufficient to elicit an increase in connectedness to nature. However, we found that exposure increased actual donation behavior for animal and environmental protection organizations. It is important to note that nature documentary exposure increased proenvironmental donation behavior only in those already having a strong sense of connectedness. We discuss real-world implications for donation-accepting, non-profit organizations.

Arlt, D., et al. (2018). "Climate Engagement in a Digital Age: Exploring the Drivers of Participation in Climate Discourse Online in the Context of COP21." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(1): 84-98.	Various scholars underscore the importance of public engagement with climate change to successfully respond to the challenges of global warming. However, although online media provide various new opportunities to actively engage in climate discourse so far very little is known about the drivers of this form of engagement. Against this background, this study tested a theoretical model on the effects of media and interpersonal communication on participation in climate discourse online using data from a representative online survey of German citizens (n=1392) carried out while COP21. Overall, the results show that receiving information on climate change from social media (social networks, Twitter, blogs), active information seeking online and interpersonal conversations about COP21 strongly encourage participation in climate discourse online. Moreover, results provide relevant insights on the role of interest in climate politics, personal issue relevance and climate scepticism as preconditions of communication effects.

Arlt, D. and J. Wolling (2016). "Fukushima effects in Germany? Changes in media coverage and public opinion on nuclear power." Public Understanding of Science 25(7): 842-857.	Based on a literature review on factors that explain media effects and previous findings on media coverage and public opinion on nuclear power, this article examines the effects of Fukushima on media coverage and public opinion in Germany in two studies. The first study uses content analysis data to analyse changes in media coverage, and the second one is based on panel survey data to examine attitude changes on an individual level. The results of both studies show changes in media coverage and public opinion on nuclear power. Furthermore, the second study reveals that individual attitude changes cannot necessarily be explained by the same factors as the distribution of attitudes.

Armon, R. (2017). "Radio Sensors and Electric Storms: Scientific Metaphors in Media Talks." Science Communication 39(4): 443-465.	Metaphors play an important role in communicating research to professional and lay audiences and are frequently used by journalists to present research in familiar terms. Previous studies of metaphors in science news have examined edited press reports and the use of metaphors by journalists. However, this study looks into the use of metaphors by scientists interviewed in live broadcasts. Using conversation analysis, interviews are explored for the insertion of metaphors by scientists or their uptake of metaphors that their hosts introduce. Metaphor use is shown to respond to the interactional context and participants' roles in communicating the topic reported.

Armon, R. and A. Baram-Tsabari (2017). "Our findings, my method: Framing science in televised interviews." Public Understanding of Science 26(8): 986-1002.	The public communication of science and technology largely depends on their framing in the news media, but scientists' role in this process has only been explored indirectly. This study focuses on storied accounts told by scientists when asked to present their research or provide expert advice in the course of a news interview. A total of 150 items from a current affairs talk show broadcast in the Israeli media were explored through a methodology combining narrative and conversation analysis. Using the concept of framing as originally proposed by Erving Goffman, we show that researchers use personal accounts as a way of reframing news stories introduced by the program hosts. Elements of method and rationale, which are usually considered technical and are shunned in journalistic reports, emerged as a crucial element in the accounts that experts themselves provided. The implications for framing research and science communication training are discussed.

Arnason, V. (2013). "Scientific citizenship in a democratic society." Public Understanding of Science 22(8): 927-940.	Using the example of the sociological analysis of biological citizenship and literacy, it is argued that a merely descriptive analysis of these phenomena does not capture their distinctive normative features. While such a description realistically demonstrates how citizens respond to and are shaped by biotechnology and biomedical discourse, it provides no critique of the forces moulding the citizen-consumer. Ideas of active citizenship fuel the search for forms of public engagement in the spirit of deliberative democracy. While these attempts are guided by an important vision of policy making in democratic society, they are beset with several practical difficulties. It is argued that the discussion of deliberative practices has focused too much on direct participation of citizens in various dialogical events and its impact on policy and decision making. This approach ignores other important aspects of deliberative democratic theory, emphasizing public accountability and trustworthiness of democratic institutions.

Arnold, K. (1999). "Here and now: Contemporary science and technology in museums and science centres." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 66-68.
	
Aronczyk, M. (2014). "Ethical oil: the case for Canada's oil sands." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(1): 131-133.
	
Arsenault, D. J., et al. (2006). "Visual inscriptions in the scientific hierarchy." Science Communication 27(3): 376-428.	Previous research has shown that the level of graph use in science journals is linearly related to the hardness of disciplines, confirming Bruno Latour's "graphism" thesis that graphs are central to science. To determine whether the same is true of other visual displays, journals in seven disciplines were surveyed for their use of nongraph illustrations (NGIs) along with other inscriptions, both visual and nonvisual. Like graphs, NGIs were used more by the harder sciences. Among NGI types, photographs were used most in the biomedical fields and conceptual diagrams most in the soft sciences. Neither the use of tables nor the use of eqauations was systematically related to hardness, suggesting that the scientificity of disciplines may be more closely related to their visuality than to their mathematization. The uneven distribution of visual displays across the sciences is discussed in terms of their ease of comprehension, rhetorical power, and role in consensus formation.

Arvai, J. (2014). "The end of risk communication as we know it." Journal of Risk Research 17(10): 1245-1249.	According to the US National Research Council, risk communication ought to be viewed as a dialogue among people conducted to help facilitate a more accurate understanding of risks and, related, the decisions they may make to manage them. But, in spite of this widely accepted perspective on risk communication, there is often a disconnect between how it is defined and how it is practiced. Rather than focusing on a true dialogue aimed at improving risk assessments and risk management decisions, risk communication is often viewed as means of simply educating people about existing risk assessments so that, on their own, they might make (or contribute to) better risk management decisions. More worrisome, risk communication is still often seen as a means of 'correcting' misconceptions about, or perceptions of, risk; in other words, risk communication is used as a vehicle for attempting to align lay perceptions with their expertly assessed severity. In this paper, I argue that risk communication must become more decision-focused if it is to meet the objectives set forth - in 1989 - by the US National Research Council.

Arvai, J. and K. Post (2012). "Risk Management in a Developing Country Context: Improving Decisions About Point-of-Use Water Treatment Among the Rural Poor in Africa." Risk Analysis 32(1): 67-80.	More than 1 billion people, the vast majority of which live in the developing world, lack basic access to clean water for domestic use. For this reason, finding and promoting effective and sustainable solutions for the provision of reliable clean water in developing nations has become a focus of several public health and international development efforts. Even though several means of providing centrally located sources of clean water in developing communities exist, the severity and widespread nature of the water problem has led most development agencies and sanitation experts to strongly advocate the use of point-of-use treatment systems alongside whatever source of water people regularly use. In doing so, however, development practitioners have been careful to point out that any interventions or infrastructure regarding water safety and human health must also adhere to one of the central principles of international development: to facilitate more democratic and participatory models of decision making and governance. To this end, the research reported here focused on the development of a deliberative risk management framework for involving affected stakeholders in decisions about POU water treatment systems. This research, which was grounded in previous studies of structured decision making, took place in two rural villages in the East African nation of Tanzania.

Arvai, J. L. (2003). "Using risk communication to disclose the outcome of a participatory decision-making process: Effects on the perceived acceptability of risk-policy decision." Risk Analysis 23(2): 281-289.	It has been suggested that public participation during decision making about risks can lead to more widely accepted risk policies. This article discusses an experiment to determine if this is true when people are made aware of the fact that a participatory decision-making process has taken place only through information disclosed during a subsequent risk communication effort. The results from this experiment showed that, after receiving information during risk communication that cast risk policies about space exploration as the product of a participatory decision process, participants in the study felt more supportive of the resulting decisions than did participants in a control group. This result coincided with the participants in the study group perceiving the risks associated with the decision to be lower and the benefits higher. Responses from these participants also showed that they were more satisfied with the decision-making process than they were with the outcome of the decision itself. Therefore, it may be premature to view the objective of participatory decision-making approaches-and the risk communication efforts that discuss them-as a means of making risk policies more widely acceptable to the public at large. Rather, it may be better to view the benefits of these approaches in terms of their ability to help lead to higher quality decisions that are the product of more widely accepted decision processes.

Arvai, J. L., et al. (2001). "Testing a structured decision approach: Value-focused thinking for deliberative risk communication." Risk Analysis 21(6): 1065-1076.	Public participation is now part of many decision making processes for managing environmental and technical risks. This article describes a test of a strategy to improve the quality of public input by combining themes from risk communication with the prescriptive decision process of value-focused thinking. It was hypothesized that participating in a structured, value-focused risk communication approach would lead people to make more thoughtful, better informed, and hence higher quality decisions by helping them to consider and discuss a wider array of decision-relevant issues and address key value trade-offs. It is also anticipated that utilizing a value-focused decision structure would make participants feel more comfortable with their decisions; more satisfied that their selected alternative reflected their key concerns; and, in the end, more satisfied with their decisions. To test these hypotheses, six groups comprised of 7 to 10 people participated in conventional "alternative-focused" risk communication workshops and eight groups participated in similar "value-focused" workshops. All workshops dealt with the management of risks to riverine salmon habitat from hydroelectric electricity generation. The results provided support for the hypotheses: the value-focused decision structure led to more thoughtful and better informed risk management decisions.

Asayama, S. and A. Ishii (2014). "Reconstruction of the boundary between climate science and politics: The IPCC in the Japanese mass media, 1988-2007." Public Understanding of Science 23(2): 189-203.	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) plays a significant role in bridging the boundary between climate science and politics. Media coverage is crucial for understanding how climate science is communicated and embedded in society. This study analyzes the discursive construction of the IPCC in three Japanese newspapers from 1988 to 2007 in terms of the science-politics boundary. The results show media discourses engaged in boundary-work which rhetorically separated science and politics, and constructed the iconic image of the IPCC as a pure scientific authority. In the linkages between the global and national arenas of climate change, the media domesticate the issue, translating the global nature of climate change into a discourse that suits the national context. We argue that the Japanese media's boundary-work is part of the media domestication that reconstructed the boundary between climate science and politics reflecting the Japanese context.

Ashwell, D. J. (2016). "The challenges of science journalism: The perspectives of scientists, science communication advisors and journalists from New Zealand." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 379-393.	The news media play an important role in informing the public about scientific and technological developments. Some argue that restructuring and downsizing result in journalists coming under increased pressure to produce copy, leading them to use more public relations material to meet their deadlines. This article explores science journalism in the highly commercialised media market of New Zealand. Using semi-structured interviews with scientists, science communication advisors and journalists, the study finds communication advisors and scientists believe most media outlets, excluding public service media, report science poorly. Furthermore, restructuring and staff cuts have placed the journalists interviewed under increasing pressure. While smaller newspapers appear to be printing press releases verbatim, metropolitan newspaper journalists still exercise control over their use of such material. The results suggest these journalists will continue to resist increasing their use of public relations material for some time to come.

Asiyanbi, A. P. (2015). ""I don't get this climate stuff!' Making sense of climate change among the corporate middle class in Lagos." Public Understanding of Science 24(8): 1007-1024.	Public engagement continues to be central to wider efforts to address climate change. This study contributes to public engagement debates by investigating engagement with climate change among an often overlooked group, the corporate middle class in Africa's second largest megacity, Lagos. Combining survey and interviews, I focus analysis on three aspects: awareness, knowledge and concern; role of scientific and social frames in shaping general attitude; and spatial attribution of causes and consequences. The study reveals a universal awareness and high concern about climate change among the respondents, although understanding and perceptions of climate change are significantly socially framed. Social situatedness, more than scientific facts, is the most important definer of overall engagement with climate change. This study thus underscores a nuanced constructionist stance, showing how corporate professionals' ways of knowing' climate change is underpinned by a certain co-production between scientific and socio-experiential frames. I highlight implications for research and public engagement with climate change.

Aslaksen, I., et al. (2006). "Environmental risk and the precautionary principle: "Late lessons from early warnings'' applied to genetically modified plants." Journal of Risk Research 9(3): 205-224.	The environmental risk associated with genetically modified organisms (GMO) implies that new approaches to risk assessment, risk management and risk communication are needed. In this paper we discuss the role of the precautionary principle in policy responses to GMO risk. We first discuss application of the criteria in the European Environment Agency report "Late lessons from early warnings: The precautionary principle 1896 - 2000'' to environmental GMO risk, with focus on crop plants. Moreover, we discuss Bayesian analysis in the context of improving the informational basis for decision-making under uncertainty. Finally, environmental uncertainties are intertwined with economic uncertainties. Providing incentives for improved risk assessment, risk management and risk communication is crucial for enhancing environmental and social responsibility and thereby facilitate implementation of precautionary approaches. We discuss environmental and social screening of companies as an example of how such incentives can be provided.

Asplund, T. (2016). "Natural versus anthropogenic climate change: Swedish farmers' joint construction of climate perceptions." Public Understanding of Science 25(5): 560-575.	While previous research into understandings of climate change has usually examined general public perceptions, this study offers an audience-specific departure point. This article analyses how Swedish farmers perceive climate change and how they jointly shape their understandings. The agricultural sector is of special interest because it both contributes to and is directly affected by climate change. Through focus group discussions with Swedish farmers, this study finds that (1) farmers relate to and understand climate change through their own experiences, (2) climate change is understood either as a natural process subject to little or no human influence or as anthropogenic and (3) various communication tools contribute to the formation of natural and anthropogenic climate change frames. The article ends by discussing frame resonance and frame clash in public understanding of climate change and by comparing potential similarities and differences in how various segments of the public make sense of climate change.

Atanasova, D. and N. Koteyko (2017). "Metaphors in Guardian Online and Mail Online Opinion-page Content on Climate Change: War, Religion, and Politics." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(4): 452-469.	In climate change-related media discourses metaphors are used to (re-)conceptualize climate change science as well as climate change mitigation/adaptation efforts. Using critical metaphor analysis, we study linguistic and conceptual metaphors in opinion-page content from the British online newspapers Guardian Online and Mail Online, while paying attention to the arguments they advance. We find that Guardian Online employed war metaphors to advance pro-climate change arguments. War metaphors were used to (1) communicate the urgency to act on climate change and (2) conceptualize climate change politics. Mail Online employed religion metaphors to furnish skeptic/contrarian arguments. Religion metaphors were used to (1) downplay the urgency to act on climate change and (2) conceptualize transitions from climate change belief to skepticism. These findings raise concerns about sustained policy gridlock and refute expectations about novelty in climate change-related media discourses (as both war and religion have a history of use).

Atkinson, L. and Y. Kim (2015). ""I Drink It Anyway and I Know I Shouldn't": Understanding Green Consumers' Positive Evaluations of Norm-violating Non-green Products and Misleading Green Advertising." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(1): 37-57.	Consumers increasingly report concern for the environment and acceptance of green products, but few opt for them in stores. This mixed-methods study adds context and helps specify the details of this attitude-behavior gap. First, a preliminary study relies on framing theory to conduct an exploratory content analysis of green advertising frames in four cross-platform women's lifestyle programming (website, magazine, and TV shows). Data indicate green-ad frames are commonplace in beauty, food, and household products advertisements, but claims are ambiguous and unsubstantiated. Drawing on theories of motivated reasoning, evolutionary psychology and the Persuasion Knowledge Model, the main study incorporates data from focus group interviews to understand how green consumers rationalize their non-green attitudes and positive evaluations of environmentally inferior products. Although consumers are skeptical of these green ads, they are ultimately accepting of the claims and rationalize their norm-violating positive evaluations in ways that amplify the non-green claims.

Atman, C. J., et al. (1994). "Designing Risk Communications - Completing and Correcting Mental Models of Hazardous Processes .1." Risk Analysis 14(5): 779-788.	Many risk communications are intended to help the lay public make complex decisions about risk.  To guide risk communicators with this objective, a mental models approach to the design and characterization of risk communications is proposed.  Building on text comprehension and mental models research, this approach offers an integrated set of methods to help the risk communication designer choose and analyze risk communication content, structure, and organization.  An applied example shows that two radon brochures designed with this approach present roughly the same expert facts as a radon brochure widely distributed by the U.S. EPA but meet higher standards on other content, structure, and organization criteria.

Attenborough, F. (2010). "Victorian Popularizers of Science: Designing Nature for New Audiences." Public Understanding of Science 19(1): 126-127.
	
Attenborough, F. (2011). "Contested Medicine: Cancer Research and the Military." Public Understanding of Science 20(2): 287-287.
	
Attenborough, F. T. (2012). "Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the rhetorical construction of "bad" scientific work." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 211-225.	How are secondary accounts of "bad" scientific practice constructed? How do they engage with the primary data produced by "bad" scientists? And what happens to those primary data as generations of secondary accounts purporting to describe them accumulate? This paper addresses such questions via a case study of Dr. Hong, a microbiologist accused of "bad" scientific practice by numerous secondary accounts of the 2003 SARS outbreak. Bringing Hong's own account of his own actions into dialogue with one of the most influential secondary accounts of his actions, the paper highlights the gross disparity between the two. Having argued that the rhetorical structuring of the secondary account is, ultimately, responsible for Hong's characterisation as a "bad" scientist, it then moves to explore how subsequent accounts developed their own characterisations. What becomes clear is that as secondary accounts began feeding off one another, references to Hong's account disappeared. Aided by the concepts of the "vanishing" and the "phantasm," the paper concludes with a consideration of how this process left Hong's work with a very peculiar form of existence.

Atwood, L. E. and A. M. Major (2000). "Optimism, pessimism, and communication behavior in response to an earthquake prediction." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 417-431.	This analysis examines the public response to the 1990 Iben Browning earthquake prediction within the framework of social comparisons theory, which provides a context for examining people's beliefs about their own vulnerability compared with their beliefs about the vulnerability of most other people. Social comparisons do influence people's response to threat. Pessimistic respondents believed they were at greater risk than others and were more likely to believe the prediction. Optimistic respondents were less likely than pessimists to seek information, and their lack of information about the risk may have led to denial of the threat. When beliefs about vulnerability were compared in terms of death, serious injury, and property damage, only 57 percent of the respondents fell into the same grouping of optimist pessimist, and realist in both analyses. These shifts in group membership provide support for the assertion that beliefs about vulnerability change in response to situational contingencies.

Augoustinos, M., et al. (2010). "Genetically modified food in the news: media representations of the GM debate in the UK." Public Understanding of Science 19(1): 98-114.	This paper analyses a corpus of articles on GM crops and food which appeared in six UK newspapers in the first three months of 2004, the year following the GM Nation? debate (2003). Using the methods of critical discourse analysis we focus on how specific and pervasive representations of the major stakeholders in the national debate on GM-the British public, the British government, the science of GM, and biotechnology companies-served significant rhetorical functions in the controversy. Of particular significance was the pervasive representation of the British public as uniformly opposed to GM crops and food which served rhetorically to position the British government as undemocratic and as being beholden to powerful political and economic interests. Of significance also in our analysis, is how the science of GM farming itself became a highly contested arena. In short, our analysis demonstrates how the GM debate was represented in the newsprint media as a "battleground" of competing interests. We conclude by considering the possible implications of this representation given the increasing emphasis placed on the importance of deliberative and inclusive forms of science policy decision-making.

Augoustinos, M., et al. (2009). "Representations of the stem-cell cloning fraud: from scientific breakthrough to managing the stake and interest of science." Public Understanding of Science 18(6): 687-703.	The meteoric rise of Professor Wu Sook Hwang who had claimed to have successfully cloned embryonic stem cells in two landmark papers published in Science (2004, 2005) came to an abrupt end when it was discovered that the findings reported in both papers had been deliberately fabricated. Given the heightened expectations associated with therapeutic-cloning advances and their potential for alleviating a range of illnesses, this recent case of scientific fraud generated considerable controversy and 3public interest across the world. This paper examines a sample of texts taken predominantly from the British newsprint media that reported on both the so-called scientific "breakthrough" R as it was initially reported) and the subsequent fraud. Using Gilbert and Mulkay's analysis of scientists' discourse as a theoretical framework, our analysis focuses on how competing repertoires of science were mobilized by the media and the scientific community to account for the fraud. Specifically, we demonstrate how the empiricist repertoire of science was repeatedly mobilized in the initial reporting of the stem-cell "breakthrough" which functioned to warrant the scientific veracity and promissory potential of the findings. In contrast, when this so-called "breakthrough" was discovered to be fraudulent, a contingent repertoire was invoked to construct Hwang as a "bad apple," who was unrepresentative of the scientific community in general. We also detail the use of a Truth-Will-Out rhetorical device which in a similar way functioned to warrant the practice of embryonic stem-cell research specifically and the institution of science, more generally.

Aurbach, E. L., et al. (2018). "Half-Life Your Message: A Quick, Flexible Tool for Message Discovery." Science Communication 40(5): 669-677.	Academic writers and presenters need concrete activities to help them learn how to communicate more effectively. We describe such a tool, called Half-Life Your Message, which is adapted from a commonly used improvisational theater game and can be applied in three minutes to distill a central thesis for any communication effort. Users can increase the value provided by Half-Life Your Message by scaffolding its application with an introduction and opportunity to self-reflect and debrief. We emphasize the tool's utility based on our experiences in using it ourselves and in teaching it to undergraduates, graduate students, and faculty.

Autry, M. K. and A. R. Kelly (2012). "Merging Duke Energy and Progress Energy: Online Public Discourse, Post-Fukushima Reactions, and the Absence of Environmental Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(2): 278-284.	This article examines online discourse in 2011 surrounding the proposed Duke Energy and Progress Energy merger in the Carolinas. It explores how issues pertaining to the merger, including constructing new nuclear plants, are discussed in media coverage and by citizens using social media. Overall, we find that the merger discourse focuses on economic concerns rather than the environmental concerns we had anticipated. However, post-Fukushima discourse appears to have become more inclusive of environmental concerns. We conclude that environmental discussions and efforts are likely to be globally informed andlocally situated, discussing the implications for environmental communication research exploring online discourses, specifically through social media. Future research must address how to locate and delineate constellations of locally situated discourse to provide a clearer picture of environmentally focused social media communication.

Aven, T. (2013). "On Funtowicz and Ravetz's "Decision Stake - System Uncertainties" Structure and Recently Developed Risk Perspectives." Risk Analysis 33(2): 270-280.	The Funtowicz and Ravetz model for classifying problem-solving strategies into applied sciences, professional consultancy, and postnormal sciences is well known in the social science risk literature. The model is illustrated in a diagram based on the two axes: (i) decision stakesthe value dimension (costs, benefits) and (ii) the system uncertaintiesthe knowledge dimension. These axes resemble the same two dimensions that characterize some recently developed risk perspectives: (a) consequences and the severity of these consequences and (b) associated uncertainties. In this article, we make a detailed comparison of these two types of risk frameworks. We point to similarities and differences in motivation and use. A main conclusion of the article is that these risk perspectives all provide adequate scientific bases for the Funtowicz and Ravetz model. New insights are provided on the understanding of what the outcome stakes/consequences and uncertainty dimensions really capture in these perspectives and frameworks.

Aven, T. and O. Renn (2012). "On the Risk Management and Risk Governance of Petroleum Operations in the Barents Sea Area." Risk Analysis 32(9): 1561-1575.	In this article, we discuss issues of risk management and risk governance with respect to petroleum operations in the Barents Sea area. We will focus on the decision problems related to whether or not to open the Barents Sea for petroleum activities in special vulnerable areas. We will explore to what extent the International Risk Governance Council risk governance framework provides valuable insights for and assistance to the decisionmaker and other stakeholders (including the industry and NGOs). The study covers issues related to risk assessment and appraisal, risk acceptance and tolerability, the use of the precautionary principle, risk perception, stakeholder involvement, risk communication, and risk management. The overall aim of the article is to point to areas where the risk governance could have been and can be improved for these and similar decision problems.

Ayra, E. S., et al. (2015). "Risk Analysis for Unintentional Slide Deployment During Airline Operations." Risk Analysis 35(9): 1652-1662.	We present a risk analysis undertaken to mitigate problems in relation to the unintended deployment of slides under normal operations within a commercial airline. This type of incident entails relevant costs for the airline industry. After assessing the likelihood and severity of its consequences, we conclude that such risks need to be managed. We then evaluate the effectiveness of various countermeasures, describing and justifying the chosen ones. We also discuss several issues faced when implementing and communicating the proposed measures, thus fully illustrating the risk analysis process.

Baake, K. and C. Kaempf (2011). "No Longer "Bullying the Rhine": Giving Narrative a Place in Flood Management." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(4): 428-446.	In this paper we explore whether today multiple sources of reasoning are being considered in the discourse of flood management. We examine whether stakeholders are considered and served as an audience of partners in managing rivers. To this end, we reviewed sources of reasoning that people living in river basins use for handling floods and mitigating flood risk. We focus on texts dealing with lowland flooding, taking as an example the Rhine River in historical times and in the present. Our review of river management documentation revealed that the scheme that guides engineers', policy makers', and administrators' actions toward rivers is shifting from correcting rivers toward accommodating their needs for flood plains-while still controlling the rivers. In current European river management reports we found elements of narrative side by side with formal scientific fact reporting.

Backer, T. E. (1998). "Dissemination in a time of great change." Science Communication 20(1): 142-147.	Dissemination and utilization strategies need to be reshaped to be effective during a rime of great change. Following discussion of the complex patterns of change facing society at the end of the twentieth century, six challenges to dissemination and potential responses are presented. All share the need to address thoughtfully the human dynamics of change-a main challenge for the field of dissemination and utilization in the century ahead.

Bailey, A., et al. (2014). "How Grammatical Choice Shapes Media Representations of Climate (Un)certainty." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(2): 197-215.	Although mass media continue to play a key role in translating scientific uncertainty for public discourse, communicators of climate science are becoming increasingly aware of their own role in shaping scientific messages in the news. As an example of how future media research can provide relevant feedback to climate communicators, the present study examines the ways in which grammatical and word choices represent and construct uncertainty in news reporting about the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Qualifying and hedging language and other "epistemic markers" are analyzed in four newspapers during 2001 and 2007: the New York Times and Wall Street Journal from the USA and El Pais and El Mundo from Spain. Though the US newspapers contained a higher density of epistemic markers and used more ambiguous grammatical constructs of uncertainty than the Spanish newspapers, all four media sources chose similar words when questioning the certainty around climate change. Moreover, the density of epistemic markers in each newspaper either remained the same or increased with time, despite ever-growing scientific agreement that human activities modify global climate. While the US newspapers increasingly adopted IPCC language to describe climate uncertainties, they also exhibited an emerging tendency to construct uncertainty by highlighting differences between IPCC reports or between scientific predictions and observations. The analysis thus helps identify articulations of uncertainty that will shape future media portrayals of climate science across varying cultural and national contexts.

Baillergeau, E. (2016). "Talking about risk-taking with potentially "problematic' risk-takers: a study of preventive interactions under high uncertainty." Journal of Risk Research 19(10): 1303-1318.	Drawing upon examples in the realms of crime prevention and public health, this article discusses the interactions between agents involved in preventive strategies and people identified as likely to engage in problematic' risk-taking in areas where there are frequently high levels of uncertainty. Considering the substance of the interactions between risk assessors and/or risk managers and risk bearers provides ground for challenging common assumptions regarding the relevance of the persistent divide between expert knowledge' vs. lay beliefs' and to develop an alternative framework for analysing the judgements of the various stakeholders regarding uncertainty, namely: probabilistic, clinical and experiential knowledge of risky situations. In turn, analysing the extent to which these sources of knowledge are interrelated and used is indicative of the extent to which uncertainty is acknowledged - or denied - through prevention, once it has been turned into interactions that involve risk assessors/managers and risk-takers.

Baker, D. A., et al. (2017). "Making sense of research on the neuroimage bias." Public Understanding of Science 26(2): 251-258.	Both academic and legal communities have cautioned that laypersons may be unduly persuaded by images of the brain and may fail to interpret them appropriately. While early studies confirmed this concern, a second wave of research was repeatedly unable to find evidence of such a bias. The newest wave of studies paints a more nuanced picture in which, under certain circumstances, a neuroimage bias reemerges. To help make sense of this discordant body of research, we highlight the contextual significance of understanding how laypersons' decision making is or is not impacted by neuroimages, provide an overview of findings from all sides of the neuroimage bias question, and discuss what these findings mean to public use and understanding of neuroimages.

Baker, J. O. (2012). "Public perceptions of incompatibility between "science and religion"." Public Understanding of Science 21(3): 340-353.	Narratives of conflict regarding the connections between science and religion receive considerable attention in multiple forums of public discourse. These discussions tend to focus on philosophical, abstract, and/or polemical, rather than empirical issues. Data from a 2007 national survey indicate that a relatively small proportion of American adults perceive incompatibility between science and religion. Those who do are divided evenly into groups privileging science and privileging religion. These groups are markedly different with regard to sociodemographic and religious characteristics. Overall, I advocate a theoretical perspective on "science and religion" that is culturally constructionist, but methodologically empiricist.

Baker, S. (2012). "The Theos/ComRes survey into public perception of Darwinism in the UK: A recipe for confusion Response." Public Understanding of Science 21(3): 297-298.
	
Baker, S. (2012). "The Theos/ComRes survey into public perception of Darwinism in the UK: A recipe for confusion." Public Understanding of Science 21(3): 286-293.	A survey of the general public in the UK, conducted in 2008, suggested that more than half of the British population are unconvinced by Darwinism. That survey, conducted by the polling company ComRes on behalf of the theological think-tank Theos, reported its full findings in March 2009 and found them to be "complex and confused." This paper argues that the confusion identified may have been partly engendered by the way in which the survey questionnaire was constructed and that the survey itself, not simply its respondents, was confused. A source of the confusion, it is argued, could be found, first, in the definitions used for the four positions of young earth creationism, theistic evolution, atheistic evolution and intelligent design. Second, a failure to define the key terms "evolution" and "science," used in some of the survey questions, resulted in responses that were difficult to interpret.

Bakir, V. (2005). "Greenpeace v. shell: media exploitation and the social amplification of risk framework (SARF)." Journal of Risk Research 8(7-8): 679-691.	This paper examines the usefulness of the Social Amplification of Risk Framework (SARF) in understanding the media's role in risk communication. Since the SARF was created in 1988, it has been both further developed and critiqued for (amongst other things) its: static conception of communication; lack of attention towards how key actors use the media; lack of systematic attention towards the media as an amplification station; and simplistic assumptions of how the media operate as an amplification station. A complex heavily-mediated risk communication case study-the battle between Greenpeace and Shell over the deep-sea disposal of the Brent Spar oil rig (1995)-is used to explore whether the SARF in its current stage of development stands up to these critiques. It is concluded that these critiques are more a consequence of how researchers have used the SARF rather than a fault of the SARF itself. Using the SARF framework with a qualitative case study methodology enabled systematic analysis of the role of relevant media in the social amplification of risk in the Spar issue, exposing how Greenpeace used the media to successfully communicate three risk signals, together with the inadequacies of Shell's reactions; and revealing the layering within amplification stations, including the media itself.

Bakir, V. (2010). "Media and risk: old and new research directions." Journal of Risk Research 13(1): 5-18.	A macro-view of the field of media and risk is offered by examining four main routes of media-risk research. These routes are the media's role in: providing risk knowledge to inform citizens; modulating public acceptability of different risks; motivating the public to take responsibility for, and action regarding, risks; and providing imaginative schemata regarding voluntarily chosen risks. Research tendencies in each of these routes are summarised and critiqued, with reference to methodology, theoretical frameworks and research foci, enabling articulation of new research directions. Methodologically, there is a need for more longitudinal, historical, contextual and interpretive studies of impacts of mediated risk at micro and macro levels, and more in-depth, comparative studies between different risk types across different media forms and genres. Greater empirical engagement with risk-oriented social theory such as risk society, governmentality, risk cultures and edgework would be productive. Under-explored research foci include: the gaps in knowledge within the Sociology of News; the features of risk that make it a risk issue and how these features interact with various media forms, genres and audiences; and impacts of the variations in audience trust in different media on their trust in mass-mediated risk knowledge and experience.

Balbus, J., et al. (2004). "Defining susceptibility for microbial risk assessment: Results of a workshop." Risk Analysis 24(1): 197-208.	An interdisciplinary workshop was convened by the George Washington University in June 2001 to discuss how to incorporate new knowledge about susceptibility to microbial pathogens into risk assessment and management strategies. Experts from government, academic, and private sector organizations discussed definitions, methods, data needs, and issues related to susceptibility in microbial risk assessment. The participants agreed that modeling approaches need to account for the highly specific nature of host-pathogen relationships, and the wide variability of infectivity, immunity, disease transmission, and outcome rates within microbial species and strains. Concerns were raised about distinguishing between exposure and dose more clearly, interpreting experimental and outbreak data correctly, and using thresholds and possibly linearity at low doses. Recommendations were made to advance microbial risk assessment by defining specific terms and concepts more precisely, designing explicit conceptual frameworks to guide development of more complex models and data collection, addressing susceptibility in all steps of the model, measuring components of immunity to characterize susceptibility, reexamining underlying assumptions, applying default methods appropriately, obtaining more mechanistic data to improve default methods, and developing more biologically relevant and continuous risk estimators. The interrelated impacts of selecting specific subpopulations and health outcomes, and of increasing model complexity and data demands, were considered in the contexts of public policy goals and resources required. The participants stated that zero risk is unattainable, so targeted and effective risk reduction and communication strategies are essential not only to raise pubic awareness about water quality but also to protect the most susceptible members of the population.

Balch, G. I. and S. M. Sutton (1995). "Putting the 1st Audience 1st - Conducting Useful Evaluation for a Risk-Related Government Agency." Risk Analysis 15(2): 163-168.	The risk communication practitioner in a government agency has two essential, interdependent tasks.  One is to help develop and monitor effective communication programs with various external public audiences.  The other task is to do the same thing for the senior government managers whose support is a prerequisite to addressing the first audience.  Hence, the second audience-the manager-is really the first.  This paper addresses ways in which communication practitioners can satisfy this crucial audience.  A profile of these managers suggests that they would find it highly beneficial to have more control over the public problems they encounter, especially in view of the growing pressures to do more with less and demonstrate ''customer satisfaction.''  They would rather avoid crises than manage them.  And they would rather have their bosses praise their successes than challenge their budgets or punish their perceived difficulties or failures.  Communication practitioners who can help them attain such benefits will find their efforts in great demand.  They would be helpful team members who provide timely insights that can make and show agency success.  We offer ten ways for communication practitioners to be more useful which focus their current strengths on satisfying senior managers' needs by becoming more valuable members of the program team.  By becoming more useful to the senior manager they serve both the agency and its publics.

Baldock, J. (1997). "Exploring science in museums. New research in museum studies: An international series - Pearce,S." Public Understanding of Science 6(3): 294-296.
	
Ballantyne, A. G., et al. (2018). "Localizing Climate Change: Nordic Homeowners' Interpretations of Visual Representations for Climate Adaptation." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(5): 638-652.	In recent years, effort has been put into developing various forms of climate visualization to create opportunities for people to explore and learn about local climate change risks and adaptation options. However, how target audiences make sense of such climate visualization has rarely been studied from a communication perspective. This paper analyses how Nordic homeowners made sense of a specific climate visualization tool, the VisAdapt tool. Involving 35 homeowners from three cities in 15 group test sessions, this study analyses the interpretive strategies participants applied to make sense of and assess the relevance of the visualized data. The study demonstrates that participants employed a set of interpretive strategies relating to personal experience and well-known places to make sense of the information presented, and that critical negotiation of content played an important role in how participants interpreted the content.

Balmer, B. (1998). "Science in the Twentieth Century." Public Understanding of Science 7(3): 261-262.
	
Balmer, B. (2000). "The social management of genetic engineering." Public Understanding of Science 9(2): 192-193.
	
Bandelli, A. and E. A. Konijn (2013). "Science Centers and Public Participation: Methods, Strategies, and Barriers." Science Communication 35(4): 419-448.	Science centers and museums are currently experimenting to strengthen the participation of the public in two-way conversations between the public and the institution. Eventually, these activities will lead to a stronger role of the public in the decision-making process of the museum. We analyzed the current situation faced by science museums in Europe in light of the recent discourse on public engagement with science and identified the main barriers and obstacles that prevent actual decision making of the public within the institutions. Finally, we discuss suggestions for solutions.

Bangerter, A., et al. (2011). "Introduction." Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 442-445.
	
Baram-Tsabari, A. and B. V. Lewenstein (2013). "An Instrument for Assessing Scientists' Written Skills in Public Communication of Science." Science Communication 35(1): 56-85.	This article describes the development of the first tool for measuring scientists' written skills in public communication of science. It includes the rationale for establishing learning goals in seven areas: clarity and language, content, knowledge organization, style, analogy, narrative, and dialogue, as well as the questions designed to assess these goals. The skills testing is primarily designed for assessing written communication skills and can be used in many science communication training contexts. It can serve as a baseline survey, as a formative assessment, or in summative pretest/posttest evaluations. The article provides detailed criteria for analyzing the results of the instrument as well as findings from baseline data collected from science graduate and undergraduate students.

Baram-Tsabari, A. and E. Segev (2011). "Exploring new web-based tools to identify public interest in science." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 130-143.	There is scant research-based evidence regarding what the public is interested in knowing about science, and more knowledge is needed to tailor relevant and engaging formal and free-choice science environments for different publics. This methodological paper describes the potential and limitations of three existing web-based tools - Google Trends, Google Zeitgeist, and Google Insights for Search - for PUS research. It shows how these tools can be used to (1) identify interests in science and pseudoscience, (2) conduct a cross-national comparison of popular science and pseudoscience-related searches and (3) discover possible motivations when searching for specific terms. Trends identified using analyses of online queries are discussed. These provide a bottom-up assessment of PUS, and may add another argument to the controversy regarding quantitative measures and the deficit model.

Baram-Tsabari, A. and E. Segev (2015). "The half-life of a "teachable moment": The case of Nobel laureates." Public Understanding of Science 24(3): 326-337.	Some science-related events stimulate public interest, and create a teachable moment in which the underlying science temporarily becomes more interesting. Here, media attention, expressed by Google News reference volume, and changes in information seeking behavior, expressed by Google Trends, were used to estimate the length of a teachable moment for 2004-2011 Nobel Prize announcements. On average, Nobel Prize announcements attracted the attention of online users for no longer than a week. News coverage declined slower and occasionally displayed seasonal trends. There was a 50% drop in searches between the day of the announcement and the following day, and an analogous pattern for news coverage of all laureates varying for different disciplines. The affordances of using publicly available online data to identify the most effective teachable moments relating to science are discussed.

Baram-Tsabari, A. and E. Segev (2018). "Global and local "teachable moments": The role of Nobel Prize and national pride." Public Understanding of Science 27(4): 471-484.	This study examined to what extent Nobel Prize announcements and awards trigger global and local searches or teachable moments related to the laureates and their discoveries. We examined the longitudinal trends in Google searches for the names and discoveries of Nobel laureates from 2012 to 2017. The findings show that Nobel Prize events clearly trigger more searches for laureates, but also for their respective discoveries. We suggest that fascination with the Nobel prize creates a teachable moment not only for the underlying science, but also about the nature of science. Locality also emerged as playing a significant role in intensifying interest.

Barata, G. (2011). "Handbook of Public Communication of Science and Technology." Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 574-575.
	
Barbagallo, F. and J. Nelson (2005). "Report: UK GM dialogue - Separating social and scientific issues." Science Communication 26(3): 318-325.	Responding to growing concerns about genetically modified (GM) foods, the United Kingdom (UK) government launched a broad national dialogue to help determine whether GM crops should be commercially grown in the UK. This report describes the initiative, said to be the largest public consultation to date in the UK on a science issue.

Barben, D. (2010). "Analyzing acceptance politics: Towards an epistemological shift in the public understanding of science and technology." Public Understanding of Science 19(3): 274-292.	Reviewing the main research approaches on the acceptance of science and technology (S&T) developed in the last decades, I will (1) summarize advances achieved and persisting problems concerning the understanding of both the public and S&T. I will show that the acceptance-centered framework has, at least implicitly, been linked to practical efforts in acceptance politics, i.e., attempts to improve a lack of acceptance. In order to investigate conflicts relating to S&T in a more reflective way, I will (2) suggest an epistemological shift towards the analysis of acceptance politics. Building on the distinction between the relevance and resonance of S&T, the ways in which S&T are valuated and gain legitimacy are investigated from a regime analytical perspective. I will (3) exemplify the advantages of this approach by comparatively analyzing the acceptance politics of three biotechnology applications in the USA and Germany. I will (4) conclude with an outlook on future research.

BarinasMitchell, E. J. M., et al. (1997). "Internet connectivity of state health departments - United States, 1996." Science Communication 19(2): 164-175.	A new era of public health is emerging, with the use of the Internet at the forefront. Improving the efficiency of information transfer through the use of new telecommunications tools, such as the Internet, will lead to advances in health worldwide. To describe the current status of Internet connectivity within the U.S. public health system, state health departments were surveyed by telephone. A total of 47 state health departments participated in the survey. The results indicate that 92 percent were connected to the Internet in some way; however 74 percent of those connected had personnel restrictions an usage and/or limited access to the Internet. Only 6.4 percent of the states indicated that all of their local health departments were connected. The results of this survey reveal that despite the widespread use of the Internet, the public health system in the United States has limited connectivity with respect to the number of personnel who can access the Internet and the Internet services they are able to use. It is important for the future of public health to establish a network linking the public health departments in the United States.

Barke, R. P. (1998). "Authority in science and technology policy." Science Communication 20(1): 116-123.	Many persistent issues in science and technology policy derive from confusion about the boundaries of internal and external authority. One of the most important questions within science and technology policy is; how to balance the creative energy of individual scientists with institutional needs, the requirements of research sponsors, and their own professional norms.

Barker, G. C., et al. (2010). "Can a Participatory Approach Contribute to Food Chain Risk Analysis?" Risk Analysis 30(5): 766-781.	We consider food chain risks and specifically address stakeholder participation in the risk analysis process. We combine social and natural science perspectives to explore the participation process in relation to food risks and, in particular, to consider how some specific participation processes might be scientifically evaluated and how stakeholder participation in general might be incorporated into food risk decision making. We have built considerations based on three large integrative case studies that examine aspects of participatory processes. Here we use the case studies collectively to illustrate observations and beliefs concerning the nature of the interaction of stakeholders with established quantitative risk methodologies. This account is not supported by any large volume of analysis. The views in the report are expressed in relation to an accepted risk analysis framework and also with respect to probabilistic modeling of risks and are illustrated where possible with anecdotal reports of actual case study events.

Barnes, E. (2010). "Learning Science in Informal Environments: People, Places, and Pursuits." Public Understanding of Science 19(5): 638-639.
	
Barnett, J., et al. (2012). "Imagined publics and engagement around renewable energy technologies in the UK." Public Understanding of Science 21(1): 36-50.	Against the backdrop of the imperatives for actors within the institutional framework of energy socio-technical systems to engage with the public, the aim of this paper is to consider interdependencies between the principles and practice of engagement and the nature of the imagined publics with whom engagement is being undertaken. Based on an analysis of 19 interviews with actors in the renewable energy industry, the paper explores how publics are imagined in the construction of the rationales, functions and mechanisms for public engagement. Three main themes are identified. First, the perceived necessity of engagement - which is not contingent on public responsiveness. Second, engagement is primarily conceptualised in terms of instrumental motives of providing information and addressing public concern. Third, preferences for engagement mechanisms were often a function of the specific characteristics attributed to imagined publics. Implications of this analysis for future engagement around siting renewable energy technologies are considered.

Barnett, J., et al. (2008). "Precautionary advice about mobile phones: public understandings and intended responses." Journal of Risk Research 11(4): 525-540.	There is a widespread academic and policy debate about public responses to precaution in public health campaigns. This paper explores these issues in relation to the precautionary stance adopted in the UK around the regulation of mobile telecommunications. The aim of the paper is to examine the nature of attitudes to precaution, and the way in which these, along with other relevant variables, relate to the intention to adopt relevant behaviours. The results from an experimental study (n=173) indicate that people distinguish between two dimensions of precaution: firstly in relation to its value or necessity per se and secondly as anchored to notions of governance. The two variables differentially relate to other variables including trust and uncertainty, and are predictive of intended behaviour change indirectly, through worry about mobile phone risks. Precautionary advice was generally interpreted as causing concern rather than providing reassurance. The results suggest that precaution may be considered a valuable stance but this does not mean that it is seen as good governance or that it will reduce concern. Whilst the discourse of precaution is aimed at reducing concern, it appears that the uptake of relevant behaviours is largely triggered by worry.

Barnett, J. T. (2018). "The Ecological Awareness of an Anthropocene Philosopher." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(7): 989-993.
	
Barnett, J. T. (2018). "Politics of Edibility: Reconceptualizing Ecological Relationality." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 218-231.	Taking the Infinity Burial Project (IBP) as its inspiration, this essay theorizes a politics of edibility by way of decomposing the discursive boundaries erected between human bodies and environments. In particular, this essay reads the IBP as a deconstruction of another dualismeater/eatenthat permeates and informs cultural practices from birth to burial. Mobilizing a rhetoric of carnality, the IBP decomposes the human body's relation to its environments, merging its statuses as eater and eaten. At the same time, this rhetoric of carnality also emphasizes the irreducibly productive nature of consumption as an articulatory practice in its own right. As this essay argues, a politics of edibility not only recognizes the superficiality of the body/environment and eater/eaten dichotomies but it also respects the relations generated in the wake of their deconstruction.

Barriga, C. A., et al. (2010). "Science Information in Fictional Movies: Effects of Context and Gender." Science Communication 32(1): 3-24.	The National Science Board and others are concerned that movies often miscommunicate science to the public with negative effects on science literacy and attitudes toward science. However, very little is known about the specific impact of movie science on audiences. This experiment examines the influence of narrative transportation, role of science within the movie, and gender of the viewer on evaluation of incorrect scientific information in fiction. Results show that incorrect science facts accepted as true after seeing identical segments from movies depend on the gender of the participant and a manipulation of the perceived centrality of science to the plot. Men tended to detect more inaccurate science facts when they thought science was central to the plot. Women detected more inaccurate science facts when they thought science was peripheral to the plot, which was presented as a relational story. The results may have implications for research on media effects, public understanding of science, and gender differences in learning.

Barry, A. (1998). "Exploring technology and social space." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 350-351.
	
Barua, M. (2010). "Whose Issue? Representations of Human-Elephant Conflict in Indian and International Media." Science Communication 32(1): 55-75.	The media play a key role in communicating conservation issues such as human-wildlife conflict, but corresponding literature on how issues are represented is limited. This article traces the depiction of human-elephant conflict in the media by examining (a) how conflicts are framed and (b) how ultimate and proximate causes are communicated in Indian and international newspapers. Issues were often polarized or framed in dramatic terms, and consonance in reporting causes was lacking. Active engagement with the media is needed to produce a nuanced debate on conflict, for which recognizing the role of different actors and working closely with individual journalists are vital.

Bassett, D. R. (2012). "Notions of Identity, Society, and Rhetoric in a Speech Code of Science Among Scientists and Engineers Working in Nanotechnology." Science Communication 34(1): 115-159.	This ethnography of communication was concerned with discovering a speech code in the discourse about values in science used by scientists and engineers working in nanoscale science and engineering. It was supported and guided by the theoretical framework of speech codes theory. Materials analyzed included 4 years of fieldwork at a U.S. research university and nanotechnology center and 20 in-depth interviews conducted with scientists and engineers working in nanotechnology. Data sets were constructed and analyzed to identify a distinctive speech code about science and social and ethical implications of nanotechnology that contains beliefs among its users about identity, society, and rhetoric.

Batel, S. and P. Devine-Wright (2015). "Towards a better understanding of people's responses to renewable energy technologies: Insights from Social Representations Theory." Public Understanding of Science 24(3): 311-325.	In the past few years, social research has been examining what contributes to the attitude-behaviour gap in people's responses to large-scale renewable energy technologies. The NIMBY explanation for the gap has long dominated that area of research, but has also been criticised. Alternative proposals to NIMBY were advanced, but it is still evident that some of those maintain presuppositions of NIMBY and that this area of research needs more integration, namely at a theoretical level. In this paper we argue that to overcome those aspects it is relevant, first, to situate the promotion of renewable energy production as a social change process in today's societies, and, second, to therefore consider the socio-psychological aspects involved in people's responses to social change. We discuss specifically how the Theory of Social Representations may help us with that and contribute to a better understanding of people's responses to renewable energy technologies.

Bates, B. R. (2005). "Public culture and public understanding of genetics: a focus group study." Public Understanding of Science 14(1): 47-65.	As the role of genetic science in everyday life has grown, policymakers have become concerned about Americans' understandings of this science. Much effort has been devoted to formal schooling, but less attention has been paid to the role of public culture in shaping public understanding of genetics. Research into public cultural messages about genetics has claimed that the public is likely to adopt problematic accounts, but few studies have explored the public's articulation of these messages. This study is based on 25 focus groups convened to explore the lay public's understanding of genetics. The study found that the public processed a greater variety of messages than assumed by previous researchers, including documentaries, non-science-fiction films, and popular television in addition to previous researchers' focus on science fiction and news media. The study also found that the public does not process the messages through the linear, transmission model assumed by previous research. The public processes messages about genetics complexly and critically. On the basis of these findings, the study suggests that researchers should include a greater variety of texts about genetics in their research and attend more fully to audience processing in addition to content analyses of these texts.

Battistoli, B. F. (2016). "Evaluating elements of trust: Race and class in risk communication in post-Katrina New Orleans." Public Understanding of Science 25(4): 480-489.	This study seeks to determine the relative influence of race and class on trust in sources of messages of environmental risk in post-Katrina New Orleans. It poses two hypotheses to test that influence: H1-African-Americans ("Blacks") trust risk message sources less than European American ("Whites") do and H2-The higher the socioeconomic class, the lower the trust in risk message sources. A 37-question telephone survey (landlines and cellphones) was conducted in Orleans Parish in 2012 (n = 414). The overall margin of error was +/- 4.8% at a 95% confidence interval. A hierarchical regression analysis revealed that the first hypothesis was rejected, while the second was supported. Additional data analysis revealed that frequency of use of sources of risk information appears to be a positive factor in building trust.

Bauer, M. W. (2002). "Arenas, platforms, and the biotechnology movement." Science Communication 24(2): 144-161.	In this article, the author discusses key assumptions of a comparative research project on the public controversies over biotechnology and genetic engineering in as many as sixteen different countries. Key ideas of arenas, platforms, and the technology movement are briefly introduced with markers to empirical results comparing the three arenas of regulation, mass media coverage, and public perceptions and their interrelations in different contexts. A dynamic map of similarities and differences of the public controversy is emerging across several public spheres of biotechnology. The article concludes with reflections on future research: the analysis of the responses to public controversy in the biotechnology movement. Such evidence will complete the conceptual space and contribute to a functional analysis of resistance in the development of new technology.

Bauer, M. W. (2002). "Controversial medical and agri-food biotechnology: a cultivation analysis." Public Understanding of Science 11(2): 93-111.	Whether biotechnology is one or several developments is not clear. Once distinctions are required, the question is: Which one prevails? When the good, the bad, and the ugly settle, where do they fall? Evaluation implies distinction, and representation drives attitude. The controversies over biotechnology are fertile ground on which to study these issues. The imports of genetically modified (GM) soya into Europe in 1996-97 and the cloning of Dolly the sheep from adult cells in 1997 changed the symbolic environment for genetic engineering. The ensuing public controversies came to focus mainly on field trials of GM crops and food labeling. This paper will explore the relationship between quality press coverage and public perception, in particular the cultivation of the contrast between "desirable" biomedical (RED) and "undesirable" agri-food (GREEN) biotechnology in Britain. The argument draws on a systematic analysis of the British press coverage of biotechnology from 1973 to 1999 and analysis of public perceptions in 1996 and 1999. The paper concludes that the debate over GM crops and food ingredients fostered the RED-GREEN contrast among the newspaper-reading public, thereby shielding RED biotechnology from public controversy, and ushered in a realignment of the regulatory framework in 2000.

Bauer, M. W. (2004). "Public perception of science: Research results from Argentina, Brazil, Spain and Uruguay." Public Understanding of Science 13(3): 323-325.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2004). "Public understanding of science - two views from Latin America." Public Understanding of Science 13(3): 323-325.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2006). "Everyday discourse and common sense: The theory of social representations." Public Understanding of Science 15(3): 377-378.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2008). "The Public, the Media and Agricultural Biotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 17(4): 511-512.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2009). "Untitled." Public Understanding of Science 18(4): 378-382.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2011). "Untitled." Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 290-291.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2011). "Untitled." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 2-2.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2012). "PUS-at-20- Twenty years of Public Understanding of Science." Public Understanding of Science 21(1): 2-3.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2013). "Untitled." Public Understanding of Science 22(7): 766-767.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2014). "Classical Statements: A new feature of Public Understanding of Science." Public Understanding of Science 23(7): 754-754.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2014). "A word from the Editor on the special issue on 'Public Engagement'." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 3-3.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2015). "PUS has gone global in documenting the local culture of science." Public Understanding of Science 24(8): 896-896.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2015). "... and the new editor of Public Understanding of Science will be ...?" Public Understanding of Science 24(6): 640-640.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2015). "Science literacy and beyond." Public Understanding of Science 24(3): 258-259.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2016). "Results of the essay competition on the "deficit concept'." Public Understanding of Science 25(4): 398-399.
	
Bauer, M. W. (2016). "A word from the parting editor, 4760 pages down the line." Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 130-134.
	
Bauer, M. W., et al. (2007). "What can we learn from 25 years of PUS survey research? Liberating and expanding the agenda." Public Understanding of Science 16(1): 79-95.	This paper reviews key issues of public understanding of science (PUS) research over the last quarter of a century. We show how the discussion has moved in relation to large-scale surveys of public perceptions by tracing developments through three paradigms: science literacy, public understanding of science and science and society. Naming matters here like elsewhere as a marker of "tribal identity." Each paradigm frames the problem differently, poses characteristic questions, offers preferred solutions, and displays a rhetoric of "progress" over the previous one. We argue that the polemic over the "deficit concept" voiced a valid critique of a common sense concept among experts, but confused the issue with methodological protocol. PUS research has been hampered by this "essentialist" association between the survey research protocol and the public deficit model. We argue that this fallacious link should be severed to liberate and to expand the research agenda in four directions: contextualizing survey research, searching for cultural indicators, integrating datasets and doing longitudinal analysis, and including other data streams. Under different presumptions, assumed and granted, we anticipate a fertile period for survey research on public understanding of science.

Bauer, M. W. and S. Howard (2012). "Open access to Public Understanding of Science." Public Understanding of Science 21(7): 780-781.
	
Bauer, M. W. and S. Howard (2012). "Public Understanding of Science - a peer-review journal for turbulent times." Public Understanding of Science 21(3): 258-267.
	
Bauer, M. W. and P. Jensen (2011). "The mobilization of scientists for public engagement." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 3-11.
	
Baum, L. M. (2012). "It's Not Easy Being Green ... Or Is It? A Content Analysis of Environmental Claims in Magazine Advertisements from the United States and United Kingdom." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(4): 423-440.	As corporations seek to appeal to environmentally conscious stakeholders, advertisements containing environmental claims have become increasingly prominent. A corporation's desire for an enhanced corporate reputation, combined with lenient environmental advertising regulation, has created the perfect environment for corporations to useand misuseenvironmental claims, resulting in greenwashing. Defined as the act of disseminating disinformation to consumers regarding the environmental practices of a company or the environmental benefits of a product or service, greenwashing occurs around the world. This study is a cross-national content analysis of 247 print ads from 84 issues of mainstream magazines from the United States and United Kingdom. Three-fourths (75%) of the ads analyzed contained one or more aspects of greenwashing. Firms advertising in US magazines were significantly more likely to employ misleading/deceptive environmental claims than UK firms and magazines. These findings suggest that without increased environmental advertisement regulation, greenwashing will persist as a disingenuous means for corporate reputation enhancement.

Baumer, E. P. S., et al. (2017). "A Simple Intervention to Reduce Framing Effects in Perceptions of Global Climate Change." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(3): 289-310.	This paper explores a technique for mitigating framing effects in perceptions of global climate change. People's opinions on issues ranging from same sex marriage and the environment to free speech and health care have been shown to be influenced by the way in which the issue is presented: the metaphors, images, and catchphrases that communicate implicit normative messages about the issue. The work described here synthesizes insights from experimental research on moderators of framing effects and sociological research on frame reflection. Based on this synthesis, this paper describes a test of a simple highlighting technique for focusing respondents' attention on the framing operating in political materials. Results suggest that this intervention not only can reduce the opinion-shaping impact of frames but may also reduce ideological polarization. Implications include a better understanding of the mechanisms by which frames operate, techniques for making frame reflection possible among political non-elites, and recommendations for strengthening environmental groups' public communication strategies.

Baxter, J. (2009). "A quantitative assessment of the insider/outsider dimension of the cultural theory of risk and place." Journal of Risk Research 12(6): 771-791.	This paper examines two hypotheses of risk perception: cultural theory's distinction between insiders and outsiders and the idea that risk perceptions and their determinants differ substantially from one place to the next for the same point-source hazard. These hypotheses are juxtaposed in cross-tabulations and logistic regression models with competing explanations of perceived risk in communities living with technological environmental hazards: sound management, benefits, fair facility siting and sociodemographics. The data come from a telephone survey of 455 residents in Swan Hills (n=173), Fort Assiniboine (n=171) and Kinuso (n=111), Alberta, Canada who are all near a large-scale hazardous waste treatment facility. Considerable support is found for the insider/outsider thesis in terms of the highest ranked information sources and trust to ensure safety. Place differences are clear where, for example, the least facility-related concern is in Swan Hills (31%) 12 km away, the highest is in Kinuso (81%) 70 km away and moderately high concern is in Fort Assiniboine (62%) which is also 70 km away. This study highlights the importance of fair facility siting, the need to go beyond cultural bias analysis when studying the cultural theory of risk, and suggests further exploration of the notion of tailoring risk communication that is place specific, and emphasizes channels that may be defined as 'outsider' and 'insider'.

Baxter, J. and D. Lee (2004). "Understanding expressed low concern and latent concern near a hazardous waste treatment facility." Journal of Risk Research 7(7-8): 705-729.	This paper discusses local small town residents' concerns about risk and safety near a hazardous waste facility at Swan Hills, Alberta, Canada. The majority of the residents studied outwardly express that they have low concern about the facility. The purposes are to both elaborate existing theory that potentially explains low concern and to explore new explanations of low concern in everyday life. Theories or concepts which potentially explain expressed low concern are start-points for this qualitative case study. These include: economic risk theory, psychometric risk theory, cultural risk theory, cognitive dissonance (threat denial), community identity and stigma, and risk attenuation. Thirty-eight in-depth resident interviews involving views of facility risks, as well as community life, are used to better understand the social construction of risk. It is found that despite the fact that 31 residents outwardly insist they have no or low concern about facility risks when first prompted, 11 actually do show latent concerns when probed further, expressed as uncertainty, reservations and doubt. It is argued that juxtaposing the views of insiders against those perceived to be held by outsiders furthers understanding of why facility concern is rarely expressed in such a community. There is a heightened sense of pride and positive community identity manifest as a defensive reaction by insider residents to outsiders who are perceived to hold negative, stigmatizing views of the facility as well as the town. Implications relating to community and industry vigilance as well as the impacts of outsiders sensationalising risk are discussed.

Bayliss, K., et al. (2018). "Perceptions of predictive testing for those at risk of developing a chronic inflammatory disease: a meta-synthesis of qualitative studies." Journal of Risk Research 21(2): 167-189.	Background: The availability of tests to predict the risk of developing chronic diseases is increasing. The identification of individuals at high risk of disease can trigger early intervention to reduce the risk of disease and its severity. In order for predictive tests to be accepted and used by those at risk, there is a need to understand people's perceptions of predictive testing. Method: A meta-synthesis of qualitative research that explored patient and public perceptions of predictive testing for chronic inflammatory diseases was conducted. Studies were coded by researchers and patient research partners, and then organised into common themes associated with the acceptability or use of predictive testing. Results: Perceived barriers to predictive testing were identified, including a concern about a lack of confidentiality around the use of risk information; a lack of motivation for change; poor communication of information; and a possible impact on emotional well-being. In order to reduce these barriers, the literature shows that a patient-centred approach is required at each stage of the testing process. This includes the consideration of individual needs, such as accessibility and building motivation for change; readily available and easy to understand pre and post-test information; support for patients on how to deal with the implications of their results; and the development of condition specific lifestyle intervention programmes to facilitate sustainable lifestyle changes. Conclusion: Patients and members of the public had some concerns about predictive testing; however, a number of strategies to reduce barriers and increase acceptability are available. Further research is required to inform the development of a resource that supports the individual to make an informed decision about whether to engage in a predictive test, what test results mean, and how to access post-test support.

Baysha, O. and A. Calabrese (2012). "The Global in the Local: A Case Study on Deforestation in a Ukrainian Journalistic Field." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(2): 156-174.	It is widely assumed nowadays that in order to effectively respond to environmental challenges, humanity must cultivate cosmopolitan ethical consciousness. An important role, according to this outlook, should be assigned to journalists, who must possess a cosmopolitan sense of responsibility. How can this global responsibility emerge out of the local sense of belonging? To examine this question, we present the case study of the decision of 107495 the Kharkov (Ukraine) municipal council to cut down a local recreation forest. The content of local news and the interviews with journalists are presented and analyzed. The study shows that local patriotism appears not to be a decisive factor in forming journalists' sentiments toward the issues of global responsibility. Rather, it is a sense of exclusion from the global community that explains the fact that no news medium under analysis has managed to relate local events to the global problem of deforestation.

Bearth, A., et al. (2016). ""The Dose Makes the Poison": Informing Consumers About the Scientific Risk Assessment of Food Additives." Risk Analysis 36(1): 130-144.	Intensive risk assessment is required before the approval of food additives. During this process, based on the toxicological principle of the dose makes the poison,? maximum usage doses are assessed. However, most consumers are not aware of these efforts to ensure the safety of food additives and are therefore sceptical, even though food additives bring certain benefits to consumers. This study investigated the effect of a short video, which explains the scientific risk assessment and regulation of food additives, on consumers' perceptions and acceptance of food additives. The primary goal of this study was to inform consumers and enable them to construct their own risk-benefit assessment and make informed decisions about food additives. The secondary goal was to investigate whether people have different perceptions of food additives of artificial (i.e., aspartame) or natural origin (i.e., steviolglycoside). To attain these research goals, an online experiment was conducted on 185 Swiss consumers. Participants were randomly assigned to either the experimental group, which was shown a video about the scientific risk assessment of food additives, or the control group, which was shown a video about a topic irrelevant to the study. After watching the video, the respondents knew significantly more, expressed more positive thoughts and feelings, had less risk perception, and more acceptance than prior to watching the video. Thus, it appears that informing consumers about complex food safety topics, such as the scientific risk assessment of food additives, is possible, and using a carefully developed information video is a successful strategy for informing consumers.

Bearth, A., et al. (2017). "Consumers' Risk Perception of Household Cleaning and Washing Products." Risk Analysis 37(4): 647-660.	A large share of accidental and nonaccidental poisonings are caused by household cleaning and washing products, such as drain cleaner or laundry detergent. The main goal of this article was to investigate consumers' risk perception and misconceptions of a variety of cleaning and washing products in order to inform future risk communication efforts. For this, a sorting task including 33 commonly available household cleaning and washing products was implemented. A total of 60 female consumers were asked to place the cleaning and washing products on a reference line 3 m in length with the poles dangerous and not dangerous. The gathered data were analyzed qualitatively and by means of multidimensional scaling, cluster analysis, and linear regression. The dimensionality of the sorting data suggests that both analytically (i.e., written and graphical hazard notes and perceived effectiveness) and intuitively driven risk judgments (i.e., eco vs. regular products) were applied by the participants. Furthermore, results suggest the presence of misconceptions, particularly related to consumers' perceptions of eco cleaning products, which were generally regarded as safer than their regular counterparts. Future risk communication should aim at dispelling these misconceptions and promoting accurate risk perceptions of particular household cleaning and washing products.

Becker, A. B. (2010). "Mobilizing Science: Movements, Participation, and the Remaking of Knowledge." Science Communication 32(4): 544-546.
	
Beem, B. (2012). "Learning the wrong lessons? Science and fisheries management in the Chesapeake Bay blue crab fishery." Public Understanding of Science 21(4): 401-417.	This paper argues that information produced and then taken up for policy decision making is a function of a complex interplay within the scientific community and between scientists and the broader policy network who are all grappling with issues in a complex environment with a high degree of scientific uncertainty. The dynamics of forming and re-forming the scientific community are shaped by political processes, as are the directions and questions scientists attend to in their roles as policy advisors. Three factors: 1) social construction of scientific communities, 2) the indeterminacy of science, and 3) demands by policy makers to have concrete information for decision making; are intertwined in the production and dissemination of information that may serve as the basis for policy learning. Through this process, however, what gets learned may not be what is needed to mitigate the problem, be complete in terms of addressing multiple causations, or be correct.

Beetlestone, J. G., et al. (1998). "The science center movement: contexts, practice, next challenges." Public Understanding of Science 7(1): 5-22.	As the science center movement expands worldwide, the time seems ripe to stimulate an informed debate centered on the purpose, practices, and achievements of science centers, together with the challenges they face in the next decade.
The first section of this paper focuses on current practice, drawing dimensions from artifact to education, from didactic to empowering, from tutti-frutti to story line, from museum to Disney. Programs beyond the exhibition, and links with the formal education system and the local community, are also considered.
The second section deals with the diversity of contexts within which science centers operate-cultural, political, financial, educational-and coins the acronym ASSET: Alternative Settings for Science, Engineering, and Technology.
The final section looks to the future, identifying funding gaps, the need for longitudinal evaluation studies, and the challenge of new information technologies. Finally, in the spirit of international challenge, the authors pose three leading questions: What lies beyond the existing-exhibit clone? Can an Art/Science divide be defined? How can we communicate contemporary science and scientific issues?

Belkhodja, O., et al. (2007). "The extent and organizational determinants of research utilization in Canadian health services organizations." Science Communication 28(3): 377-417.	This article focuses on the use of research by managers and professionals in Canadian health service organizations (ministries, regional authorities, and hospitals). The results of the analysis of the 928 responses underlined the important role that the absorption, learning, culture, and linkage mechanism variables played in determining utilization. General linear regression and regression by organizational type confirmed the importance of the linkage mechanisms, research experience, unit size, and research relevance for the users. The emphasis could thus be put, according to the organization type, on research experience, linkage mechanisms, unit size, research culture, research relevance for the users, and research activities. The article also underscores the individual and organizational contextual factors' high degree of significance by expressing these contextual factors as organizational variables and by adopting a more organizational perspective of knowledge utilization analysis.

Bell, A. (2006). "Science, technology and culture." Public Understanding of Science 15(4): 497-498.
	
Bell, A. (2008). "Reading popular physics: Disciplinary skirmishes and textual strategies." Public Understanding of Science 17(2): 278-279.
	
Bell, A. (2011). "Something Incredibly Wonderful Happens: Frank Oppenheimer and the World He Made Up." Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 574-574.
	
Bell, A. (2012). "Another Science Fiction: Advertising the Space Race, 1957-1962." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 775-776.
	
Bell, A. R. and H. Riesch (2013). "Researching popular science: More diverse than the limitations of apparent publishing "booms"." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 516-520.
	
Bell, L. (2008). "Engaging the public in technology policy - A new role for science museums." Science Communication 29(3): 386-398.	As science museums become increasingly engaged with informal education about technology, consideration of both social values and ethical controversies becomes more central to their role. While science has traditionally been represented as largely independent of these considerations, technology more visibly presents society with choices. The Museum of Science in Boston has been experimenting with a variety of public engagement approaches designed to help visitors think and talk about the societal implications of nanotechnology. These approaches are generally interactive and two-way, allowing for the collection of data about what people think in addition to simply disseminating information about technology to them. This aspect raises ethical issues in itself. What, if anything, should museums do with information about the opinions expressed?.

Bellamy, R. (2012). "The GM Debate: Risk, Politics and Public Engagement." Public Understanding of Science 21(7): 902-902.
	
Bellamy, R., et al. (2016). "Deliberative Mapping of options for tackling climate change: Citizens and specialists 'open up' appraisal of geoengineering." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 269-286.	Appraisals of deliberate, large-scale interventions in the earth's climate system, known collectively as geoengineering', have largely taken the form of narrowly framed and exclusive expert analyses that prematurely close down' upon particular proposals. Here, we present the findings from the first upstream' appraisal of geoengineering to deliberately open up' to a broader diversity of framings, knowledges and future pathways. We report on the citizen strand of an innovative analytic-deliberative participatory appraisal process called Deliberative Mapping. A select but diverse group of sociodemographically representative citizens from Norfolk (United Kingdom) were engaged in a deliberative multi-criteria appraisal of geoengineering proposals relative to other options for tackling climate change, in parallel to symmetrical appraisals by diverse experts and stakeholders. Despite seeking to map divergent perspectives, a remarkably consistent view of option performance emerged across both the citizens' and the specialists' deliberations, where geoengineering proposals were outperformed by mitigation alternatives.

Bellamy, R. and J. Lezaun (2017). "Crafting a public for geoengineering." Public Understanding of Science 26(4): 402-417.	In a short period of time, climate geoengineering' has been added to the list of technoscientific issues subject to deliberative public engagement. Here, we analyse this rapid trajectory of publicization and explore the particular manner in which the possibility of intentionally altering the Earth's climate system to curb global warming has been incorporated into the field of public engagement with science'. We describe the initial framing of geoengineering as a singular object of debate and subsequent attempts to unframe' the issue by placing it within broader discursive fields. The tension implicit in these processes of structured debate - how to turn geoengineering into a workable object of deliberation without implying a commitment to its reality as a policy option - raises significant questions about the role of public engagement with science' scholars and methods in facilitating public debate on speculative technological futures.

Benecke, M. (2005). "The genetic imaginary: DNA in the Canadian criminal justice system." Public Understanding of Science 14(2): 225-226.
	
Bengston, D. N., et al. (2009). "Rapid Issue Tracking: A Method for Taking the Pulse of the Public Discussion of Environmental Policy." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(3): 367-385.	Environmental communication professionals and other decision makers need to understand public sentiment toward environmental issues to effectively carry out their stewardship responsibilities. However, it is often difficult to obtain timely and reliable information about public discussion and debate regarding these issues. This paper describes an approach designed to address this dilemma: Rapid Issue Tracking is a method for quickly "taking the pulse" of public and other stakeholder discussion. The data source for Rapid Issue Tracking is online media stories, including traditional news media, social media, and other textual data such as public comments received by an agency. Two US Forest Service cases of Rapid Issue Tracking are presented to explicate the method and its usefulness in environmental communication and decision making.

Bensaude-Vincent, B. (2001). "A genealogy of the increasing gap between science and the public." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 99-113.	Surveys of the public understanding of science lament the communication gap between scientists and the public. This paper provides a conceptual analysis of the gap that leads to diversifying the notion of "public." The paper traces the specific context in which the notion of the gap originated, looking especially at the importance of twentieth-century physics in shaping that context.

Bentley, P. and S. Kyvik (2011). "Academic staff and public communication: a survey of popular science publishing across 13 countries." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 48-63.	This study is a cross-national empirical analysis of popular science publishing among university staff in a 13-country sample. The countries included in the study are: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Finland, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, the UK and the USA. The study seeks to quantify the extent of popular science publishing and its relationship with scientific publishing. Popular science publishing was measured as the number of articles written by scientists in newspapers and magazines over the three-year period 2005-07. Our findings suggest that popular science publishing is undertaken by a minority of academic staff and to a far lesser extent than scientific publishing. Despite the arguably fewer rewards associated with publishing for the non-specialist public, our data suggests that academic staff with popular publications have higher levels of scientific publishing and academic rank. The positive relationship between scientific and popular publishing is consistent across all countries and academic fields. The extent of popular science publishing varies with field and country.

Berdahl, L., et al. (2016). "Exploring Perceptions of Credible Science Among Policy Stakeholder Groups: Results of Focus Group Discussions About Nuclear Energy." Science Communication 38(3): 382-406.	How do different stakeholder groups define credible science? Using original qualitative focus group data, this exploratory study suggests that while nuclear energy stakeholder groups consider the same factors when assessing credibility (specifically, knowledge source, research funding, research methods, publication, and replication), groups differ in their assessments of what constitutes expertise, what demonstrates (or reduces) trustworthiness, and the relative prioritization of expertise versus trustworthiness. Overall, these results suggest it is important for science communication to consider audience-specific credibility, and raise questions about the potential impact of both funding sources and predatory journals on the perceived credibility of scientists.

Berge, M. S. Z. (2007). "Science in the private interest: Has the lure of profits corrupted biomedical research?" Public Understanding of Science 16(3): 366-368.
	
Bergmans, A. (2008). "Meaningful communication among experts and affected citizens on risk: challenge or impossibility?" Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 175-193.	Experience to date demonstrates that it remains challenging to engage experts and concerned citizens in a meaningful and mutually comprehensive dialogue on complex and technical risk-bearing projects. In search of an explanation we found Niklas Luhmann's interpretation of modern society very useful. Luhmann describes modern society as the aggregate of more or less self-sufficient functional subsystems becoming more and more isolated from each other in a spiral of progressive specialisation. With each system developing its own expectations, language, rationality and ways of observing and interpreting reality, communication between systems becomes progressively problematic; according to Luhmann, even impossible. Contrary to Luhmann, however, we consider communicating human beings (and not communication in itself) the constituting elements of society. From that perspective we see a connection with Ulrich Beck's thesis on modern society as an individualised risk society and his call for 'reflexive science and decision making'. We will use Beck's negotiation model to build communicative bridges between (Luhmann's) social (sub)systems, in particular, by engaging as many concerned parties as possible. Further, we will argue that the Belgian experience with the siting of a radioactive waste repository demonstrates that the creation of an environment in which experts and citizens can enter into dialogue as individuals, rather than as representatives of interests or (scientific) disciplines, can help bridge differences in the rationality and jargon of systems, and result in finding common ground.

Bernstein, J. and B. Szuster (2018). "Beyond Unidimensionality: Segmenting Contemporary Pro-Environmental Worldviews Through Surveys and Repertory Grid Analysis." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(8): 1062-1076.	Environmental organizations have become increasingly interested in identifying groups in the general population that understand scientific issues in an internally cohesive way. However segmenting these groups empirically is contingent on employing metrics with high levels of reliability and validity, and many existing metrics are dated or make assumptions about what constitutes pro-environmental attitudes. This research project explores the heterogeneous worldviews of a non-random sample of contemporary environmentalists. Through the use of surveys and repertory grid interviews, research participants were differentiated into sub-groups based on their attitudes towards nature's resilience, locus of control, catastrophism, and faith in technology. While cognizant of the potentially instrumentalist nature of audience segmentations, this study is descriptive rather than normative. As environmental organizations seek to communicate science more effectively, this study reveals how subgroups of environmentalists make sense of existing problems and challenges and why recognizing these differences can facilitate progress in achieving social change goals.

Berube, D. (2006). "The republican war on science." Public Understanding of Science 15(3): 378-380.
	
Berube, D. (2006). "Findings: Hidden stories in first-hand accounts of scientific discovery." Public Understanding of Science 15(2): 252-253.
	
Berube, D. M. (2009). "Risk: The Science and Politics of Fear." Public Understanding of Science 18(3): 375-376.
	
Berube, D. M. (2009). "Panicology: What Are You Afraid Of? Two Statisticians Explain What's Worth Worrying About (and What's Not) in the 21st Century." Public Understanding of Science 18(3): 375-376.
	
Besel, R. (2012). "Prolepsis and the Environmental Rhetoric of Congressional Politics: Defeating the Climate Stewardship Act of 2003." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(2): 233-249.	As a device of argumentative anticipation, prolepsis use generally is considered a positive rhetorical strategy. Turning to the Climate Stewardship Act (CSA) of 2003, this article contributes to our understanding of environmental communication, political argumentation, and rhetorical theory by examining how proleptic miscalculation can actually produce devastating consequences against one's cause when used as a source of invention. Proponents of the CSA relied on creating proleptic arguments grounded in a scientific understanding of climate change to such an extent that they mistakenly downplayed the economic arguments against the Act. This orchestrated miscalculation was encouraged and strengthened by key US senators. This article concludes by discussing contributions to scholarly understanding of prolepsis use in public policymaking and offers practical suggestions for improving communication in future considerations of environmental legislation.

Besley, J. (2015). "Making Environmental Communication Work: Creating Useful Guidance." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 398-403.
	
Besley, J. C. (2007). "Nanotechnology: Risk, ethics and law." Science Communication 28(4): 528-530.
	
Besley, J. C. (2009). "What Can Nanotechnology Learn From Biotechnology." Science Communication 30(3): 417-419.
	
Besley, J. C. (2010). "Public Engagement and the Impact of Fairness Perceptions on Decision Favorability and Acceptance." Science Communication 32(2): 256-280.	Drawing on the social-psychological theory about justice, the current study uses survey data collected during a public engagement process related to nuclear energy to test the relative impact of perceptions about the fairness of outcomes, decision procedures, and interpersonal treatment in predicting both perceived favorability of a decision and willingness to accept a decision. Media use, interpersonal discussion, competence, and risk perceptions (worry) are used as control variables alongside standard demographics in hierarchical ordinary least squares regression models. The study finds that believing one receives a fair outcome is associated with decision favorability, while all forms of fairness perceptions are associated with acceptance. The implication is that perceptions about both outcome and nonoutcome forms of fairness are important to consider when assessing public engagement.

Besley, J. C. (2012). "Imagining public engagement." Public Understanding of Science 21(5): 590-605.	Two separate studies look at how student samples conceptualize public engagement. The first study involves the quantitative analysis of an open-ended survey question and finds that participants have a range of ideas about what public decision-makers might do to consult the public but that most of these mechanisms involve very little opportunity for actual consultation. The second introduces a "draw a meeting test" and finds substantial homogeneity in how participants envisage this specific mechanism of public engagement. As with study 1, however, participants see little opportunity for citizens to have substantive opportunity for meaningful engagement with decision-makers. Overall, the research highlights the potential utility of broader research focused on how citizens envisage public meetings that includes testing the impact of public engagement perceptions on willingness to engage.

Besley, J. C. (2018). "The National Science Foundation's science and technology survey and support for science funding, 2006-2014." Public Understanding of Science 27(1): 94-109.	This study investigates how well the main science and technology focused variables included in the General Social Survey (2006-2014) by the National Science Foundation do in predicting support for science funding. These questions form the primary basis of part of a biannual report to federal lawmakers. It is therefore important to consider whether the most useful variables are included in the survey. The results suggest some bivariate relationships between funding support and demographics, use of science communication channels, science knowledge, and attitudes about science and scientists. However, the overall predictive ability of the available variables appears to be modest when included together as part of multivariate analyses. The results suggest a need for additional discussions aimed at considering revisions to the core survey questions used to track views about science and technology in the United States.

Besley, J. C. (2018). "Audiences for Science Communication in the United States." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(8): 1005-1022.	The US National Science Foundation collects biennial data on views about science and technology (S&T). Analyses have typically focused on the degree to which demographics, knowledge, and attitudes predict S&T support or views about specific technologies or issues. Published efforts do not appear to have focused on identifying latent classes within the data. Initial analyses using latent profile analysis suggests that Americans can be categorized into six substantive audience groups when it comes to views about S&T. These groups vary by demographics, including scientific background and ideology, as well as in views about S&T. Post hoc analyses explore how "class-focused" analyses may provide additional insight beyond what can be obtained from "variable-focused" analyses.

Besley, J. C., et al. (2018). "Scientists' views about communication objectives." Public Understanding of Science 27(6): 708-730.	This study looks at how United States-based academic scientists from five professional scientific societies think about eight different communication objectives. The degree to which scientists say they would prioritize these objectives in the context of face-to-face public engagement is statistically predicted using the scientists' attitudes, normative beliefs, and efficacy beliefs, as well as demographics and past communication activity, training, and past thinking about the objectives. The data allow for questions about the degree to which such variables consistently predict views about objectives. The research is placed in the context of assessing factors that communication trainers might seek to reshape if they wanted get scientists to consider choosing specific communication objectives.

Besley, J. C., et al. (2018). "Understanding Scientists' Willingness to Engage." Science Communication 40(5): 559-590.	A set of parallel surveys of scientists from multiple scientific societies finds that the most consistent predictors of willingness to take part in engagement activities with the public are a belief that she or he will enjoy the experience (attitude), make a difference through engagement (response efficacy), and has the time to engage. Age, sex, scientific field, what a scientist thinks about the public, perceived personal engagement skill (self-efficacy), and what a scientist thinks about her or his colleagues (normative beliefs) are inconsistent predictors. Research may be needed to find how to shape scientists' engagement views in ways that are both effective and acceptable.

Besley, J. C., et al. (2016). "Qualitative Interviews With Science Communication Trainers About Communication Objectives and Goals." Science Communication 38(3): 356-381.	Qualitative interviews with science communication trainers (n = 24) on the role of objectives and goals in training efforts suggest that trainers believe that scientists come to training with a range of long-term goals in mind. However, trainers appear to focus on teaching communication skills and are relatively unlikely to focus on identifying specific communication objectives as a means of achieving scientists' goals. The communication objective that trainers consistently report emphasizing is knowledge building. Other potential objectives such as fostering excitement, building trust, and reframing issues were rarely raised. Research aimed at helping trainers foster strategic communication capacity is proposed.

Besley, J. C., et al. (2008). "Interpersonal Discussion Following Citizen Engagement About Nanotechnology What, If Anything, Do They Say?" Science Communication 30(2): 209-235.	The current study explores interpersonal discussion following participation in a novel program of citizen engagement about nanotechnology. Participants answered closed- and open-ended questions about their discursive behavior in a postengagement survey. The study seeks to address whether organizers of citizen engagement can expect participants to extend the impacts of engagement beyond direct participants through interpersonal discussion. Respondents reported moderate levels of postengagement discussion and appeared to say positive things about both nanotechnology and the experts who contributed to the engagement program. Respondents also reported primarily talking about nanotechnology in terms of scientific progress while using a range of fairness and competence frames to discuss experts and the program.

Besley, J. C. and K. A. McComas (2015). "Something old and something new: comparing views about nanotechnology and nuclear energy." Journal of Risk Research 18(2): 215-231.	Much discussion surrounds the question of whether people tend to perceive new and emerging technologies in ways similar to how they perceive older, more familiar technologies. The study argues that the direct association between familiarity and support is just one way of thinking about how familiarity may affect views about emerging technologies, such as nanotechnology and nuclear energy. The study uses a probability-based survey of Americans where half received questions about nanotechnology and half received nearly identical questions about nuclear energy. Overall, it shows that the 'standard' predictors of technology support - risk/benefit perceptions, familiarity, and views about decision-makers - are similar for both nanotechnology and nuclear energy but that lower familiarity may also result in less ability for these variables to statistically explain support for nanotechnology. The data provide only partial evidence that citizens meaningfully differentiate between the two very different technologies, and the patterns of results lend support to the theory that generalized views about science and science decision-makers - in addition to issue-specific concerns - are central to understanding opinion dynamics involving emerging technologies like nanotechnology.

Besley, J. C., et al. (2008). "Local newspaper coverage of health authority fairness during cancer cluster investigations." Science Communication 29(4): 498-521.	This study explores local newspaper coverage of official cancer cluster investigations in seven different communities. The authors developed the underlying coding schema based on social-psychological research about how individuals assess the fairness of decision makers. The analysis therefore focuses on the degree to which news coverage describes science authorities as being procedurally just, which includes relational fairness and voice. The findings suggest that a significant amount of cancer cluster news coverage includes content consistent with procedural aspects of fairness. The authors also found substantial content suggesting that decision makers should "do more" to address community concerns. The authors hypothesize that such content may also be relevant to procedural justice. The discussion addresses the theoretical and practical use of additional research examining the media portrayal of scientific authorities as fair or unfair.

Besley, J. C., et al. (2012). "Citizen views about public meetings." Journal of Risk Research 15(4): 355-371.	The current study seeks to demonstrate that a citizen views about public meeting structure and related groups matter in predicting satisfaction with public engagement and willingness to attend future meetings. Public health agencies frequently use public meetings to communicate risk information, but relatively little social science research has examined how potential meeting participants view them. Using survey data (N = 866) collected in seven US communities where health agencies were investigating possible local cancer clusters and holding public meetings to communicate with local residents, the current study replicates and extends an earlier inquiry related to citizens satisfaction with public meetings used for risk communication. Whereas previous research found that expectations, health agency credibility, and risk perceptions predicted satisfaction with public meetings, the current results did not show a significant relationship between agency credibility, risk perceptions, and satisfaction. Further, the results suggest it may make sense to consider 'views about public meetings' as a single measure that includes citizens' structural expectations for meetings. Finally, the current study finds that views about public officials and views about meetings relate to individuals' willingness to attend future meetings. Additional variable development and modeling research is suggested.

Besley, J. C. and M. Nisbet (2013). "How scientists view the public, the media and the political process." Public Understanding of Science 22(6): 644-659.	We review past studies on how scientists view the public, the goals of communication, the performance and impacts of the media, and the role of the public in policy decision-making. We add to these past findings by analyzing two recent large-scale surveys of scientists in the UK and US. These analyses show that scientists believe the public is uninformed about science and therefore prone to errors in judgment and policy preferences. Scientists are critical of media coverage generally, yet they also tend to rate favorably their own experience dealing with journalists, believing that such interactions are important both for promoting science literacy and for career advancement. Scientists believe strongly that they should have a role in public debates and view policy-makers as the most important group with which to engage. Few scientists view their role as an enabler of direct public participation in decision-making through formats such as deliberative meetings, and do not believe there are personal benefits for investing in these activities. Implications for future research are discussed, in particular the need to examine how ideology and selective information sources shape scientists' views.

Besley, J. C. and S. H. Oh (2014). "The Impact of Accident Attention, Ideology, and Environmentalism on American Attitudes Toward Nuclear Energy." Risk Analysis 34(5): 949-964.	This study involves the analysis of three waves of survey data about nuclear energy using a probability-based online panel of respondents in the United States. Survey waves included an initial baseline survey conducted in early 2010, a follow-up survey conducted in 2010 following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, and an additional follow-up conducted just after the 2011 Fukushima, Japan, nuclear accident. The central goal is to assess the degree to which changes in public views following an accident are contingent on individual attention and respondent predispositions. Such results would provide real-world evidence of motivated reasoning. The primary analysis focuses on the impact of Fukushima and how the impact of individual attention to energy issues is moderated by both environmental views and political ideology over time. The analysis uses both mean comparisons and multivariate statistics to test key relationships. Additional variables common in the study of emerging technologies are included in the analysis, including demographics, risk and benefit perceptions, and views about the fairness of decisionmakers in both government and the private sector.

Besley, J. C., et al. (2013). "Predicting scientists' participation in public life." Public Understanding of Science 22(8): 971-987.	This research provides secondary data analysis of two large-scale scientist surveys. These include a 2009 survey of American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) members and a 2006 survey of university scientists by the United Kingdom's Royal Society. Multivariate models are applied to better understand the motivations, beliefs, and conditions that promote scientists' involvement in communication with the public and the news media. In terms of demographics, scientists who have reached mid-career status are more likely than their peers to engage in outreach, though even after controlling for career stage, chemists are less likely than other scientists to do so. In terms of perceptions and motivations, a deficit model view that a lack of public knowledge is harmful, a personal commitment to the public good, and feelings of personal efficacy and professional obligation are among the strongest predictors of seeing outreach as important and in participating in engagement activities.

Besley, J. C. and J. Shanahan (2005). "Media attention and exposure in relation to support for agricultural biotechnology." Science Communication 26(4): 347-367.	This article shows that attention to television news, science television, and entertainment television are all significantly related to a composite measure of agricultural biotechnology support after controlling for demographics as well as self-reported biotechnology awareness, trust in institutions, and perceived role of science. These findings contradict previous commentary that suggested that no measurable relationship exists between communication variables and biotechnology support. It is also hypothesized that some biotechnology support may be an outcome of heuristic processing by survey respondents.

Besley, J. C. and A. H. Tanner (2011). "What Science Communication Scholars Think About Training Scientists to Communicate." Science Communication 33(2): 239-263.	The current study involved an attempted census of first and second authors from five key journals across the subfields of science, health, environment, and risk communication between 2003 and 2008. Of those responding (n = 320), 80% describe themselves as a communication expert. Of these experts (n = 255), 57% report conducting formal training for bench scientists and engineers, science regulators, medical personnel, or journalists. The main focus of training was in basic communication theories and models. There is broad agreement that the science community would benefit from additional science communication training and that deficit model thinking remains prevalent.

Bessette, D. L., et al. (2016). "Expanding the Reach of Participatory Risk Management: Testing an Online Decision-Aiding Framework for Informing Internally Consistent Choices." Risk Analysis 36(5): 992-1005.	This article presents research aimed at developing and testing an online, multistakeholder decision-aiding framework for informing multiattribute risk management choices associated with energy development and climate change. The framework was designed to provide necessary background information and facilitate internally consistent choices, or choices that are in line with users' prioritized objectives. In order to test different components of the decision-aiding framework, a six-part, 2 x 2 x 2 factorial experiment was conducted, yielding eight treatment scenarios. The three factors included: (1) whether or not users could construct their own alternatives; (2) the level of detail regarding the composition of alternatives users would evaluate; and (3) the way in which a final choice between users' own constructed (or highest-ranked) portfolio and an internally consistent portfolio was presented. Participants' self-reports revealed the framework was easy to use and providing an opportunity to develop one's own risk-management alternatives (Factor 1) led to the highest knowledge gains. Empirical measures showed the internal consistency of users' decisions across all treatments to be lower than expected and confirmed that providing information about alternatives' composition (Factor 2) resulted in the least internally consistent choices. At the same time, those users who did not develop their own alternatives and were not shown detailed information about the composition of alternatives believed their choices to be the most internally consistent. These results raise concerns about how the amount of information provided and the ability to construct alternatives may inversely affect users' real and perceived internal consistency.

Bessette, D. L., et al. (2017). "Building a Values-Informed Mental Model for New Orleans Climate Risk Management." Risk Analysis 37(10): 1993-2004.	Individuals use values to frame their beliefs and simplify their understanding when confronted with complex and uncertain situations. The high complexity and deep uncertainty involved in climate risk management (CRM) lead to individuals' values likely being coupled to and contributing to their understanding of specific climate risk factors and management strategies. Most mental model approaches, however, which are commonly used to inform our understanding of people's beliefs, ignore values. In response, we developed a Values-informed Mental Model research approach, or ViMM, to elicit individuals' values alongside their beliefs and determine which values people use to understand and assess specific climate risk factors and CRM strategies. Our results show that participants consistently used one of three values to frame their understanding of risk factors and CRM strategies in New Orleans: (1) fostering a healthy economy, wealth, and job creation, (2) protecting and promoting healthy ecosystems and biodiversity, and (3) preserving New Orleans' unique culture, traditions, and historically significant neighborhoods. While the first value frame is common in analyses of CRM strategies, the latter two are often ignored, despite their mirroring commonly accepted pillars of sustainability. Other values like distributive justice and fairness were prioritized differently depending on the risk factor or strategy being discussed. These results suggest that the ViMM method could be a critical first step in CRM decision-support processes and may encourage adoption of CRM strategies more in line with stakeholders' values.

Betten, A. W., et al. (2018). "Dynamics of problem setting and framing in citizen discussions on synthetic biology." Public Understanding of Science 27(3): 294-309.	Synthetic biology is an emerging scientific field where engineers and biologists design and build biological systems for various applications. Developing synthetic biology responsibly in the public interest necessitates a meaningful societal dialogue. In this article, we argue that facilitating such a dialogue requires an understanding of how people make sense of synthetic biology. We performed qualitative research to unravel the underlying dynamics of problem setting and framing in citizen discussions on synthetic biology. We found that most people are not inherently for or against synthetic biology as a technology or development in itself, but that their perspectives are framed by core values about our relationships with science and technology and that sensemaking is much dependent on the context and general feelings of (dis)content. Given that there are many assumptions focused on a more binary idea of the public's view, we emphasize the need for frame awareness and understanding in a meaningful dialogue.

Betzold, C., et al. (2016). "Press Briefings in International Climate Change Negotiations." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(5): 575-592.	Press conferences are an important element of a government's communication strategy at climate change summits. From a theoretical perspective, press conferences should serve two main functions: exerting pressure in negotiations and informing the public. These functions correspond to two logics of action: a logic of consequence where governments use press conferences as negotiation tools and a logic of appropriateness where governments organize press conferences to increase transparency. Based on new data from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change archives, we find limited support for these two logics of action. Neither democracies, which, we argue, are more likely to follow a logic of appropriateness, nor vulnerable countries, which are more likely to follow a logic of consequence, organize systematically more press conferences. Other factors, such as capacity and a government's function in the negotiation structure, seem to play a more important role.

Bhaduri, S. and A. Sharma (2014). "Public understanding of participation in regulatory decision-making: The case of bottled water quality standards in India." Public Understanding of Science 23(4): 472-488.
	"Science-based" standards are an integral part of modern regulatory systems. Studies on "public understanding of science" mostly focus on high technology areas in advanced economies. In contrast, the present study analyses the public understanding of regulation in the context of standard-setting for bottled water quality in India. Using primary data, the econometric models of this paper show that public understanding of participation in regulation depends on awareness of, and trust in, existing regulatory practices in a complex, non-linear manner. In this light, the paper argues that "deficit model" and "dialogue model" frameworks cannot be seen as two mutually exclusive frameworks of analyses.

Bibby, T. (2003). "The great curriculum debate: How should we teach reading and math?" Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 341-342.
	
Bickerstaff, K., et al. (2008). "Reframing nuclear power in the UK energy debate: nuclear power, climate change mitigation and radioactive waste." Public Understanding of Science 17(2): 145-169.	In the past decade, human influence on the climate through increased use of fossil fuels has become widely acknowledged as one of the most pressing issues for the global community. For the United Kingdom, we suggest that these concerns have increasingly become manifest in a new strand of political debate around energy policy, which reframes nuclear power as part of the solution to the need for low-carbon energy options. A mixed-methods analysis of citizen views of climate change and radioactive waste is presented, integrating focus group data and a nationally representative survey. The data allow us to explore how UK citizens might now and in the future interpret and make sense of this new framing of nuclear power-which ultimately centers on a risk-risk trade-off scenario. We use the term "reluctant acceptance" to describe how, in complex ways, many focus group participants discursively re-negotiated their position on nuclear energy when it was positioned alongside climate change. In the concluding section of the paper, we reflect on the societal implications of the emerging discourse of new nuclear build as a means of delivering climate change mitigation and set an agenda for future research regarding the (re)fframing of the nuclear energy debate in the UK and beyond.

Bickford, J., et al. (2005). "Time and the structuring of ritual performance in the xenotransplantation debate." Public Understanding of Science 14(3): 235-247.	Advancements in biotechnology provoke fundamental questions about the relationship of humans to the natural world. A crisis arises as the knowledge, practice, and policies concerning biotechnology grow further out of step with each other. This paper examines the role of ritual performance as a means of resolving this crisis, uniting the organic with the socio-moral aspects of science, technology and regulatory policy. Ritual performance is evident in the public discussions of the United States' Secretary's Advisory Committee on Xenotransplantation (SACX). In an attempt to understand the cultural responses to new knowledge, this paper examines the transcripts of several SACX meetings for its ritual elements and references to authority. We find that time is used by scientists to structure ritual performance in a way that guides public policy and attitudes toward xenotransplantation.

Bielak, A. T. (2005). "Reporting the future - Journalism meets emerging science - The 4th World Conference of Science Journalists." Science Communication 26(4): 445-450.	The 4th World Conference of Science Journalists that was held in Montreal in October 2004 was a major success, with more than 600 participants from nearly sixty countries. Jointly organized by the national Canadian Science Writers' Association and the Association des Communicateurs Scientifiques du Quebec, the meeting featured thirty-two sessions and more than 100 speakers. With thirty presidents of regional, national, and international science writer associations present, the meeting provided the venue for the formal launch of the World Federation of Science Journalists, the goals of which include promoting excellence in science and technology reporting.

Bigl, B. (2017). "Fracking in the German Press: Securing Energy Supply on the Eve of The 'Energiewende' - A Quantitative Framing-Based Analysis." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(2): 231-247.	In many countries worldwide, unconventional hydraulic fracturing (also known as fracking) is considered a natural steppingstone toward the use of renewable energies against the backdrop of climate change. Although commercial drilling for shale gas has not yet begun in Germany, the public discourse appears to be creating more controversy than in other European countries. Based on the theoretical concept of "framing," we conducted a quantitative empirical study from January 2013 to December 2014 analyzing the coverage of fracking in three highly influential newspapers and political magazines in Germany. The results of this study provide the first insights into the discussion of fracking in the German news media and allow comparisons to the debate in other European countries. We found that fracking is mainly discussed in the economic context of securing the future energy supply while the potential risks of the technique are mostly ignored. We discuss our findings and try to explain the unbalanced reporting.

Bilandzic, H., et al. (2017). "Effects of Goal Framing and Emotions on Perceived Threat and Willingness to Sacrifice for Climate Change." Science Communication 39(4): 466-491.	This study explores discrete emotions (guilt, fear, hope) as mediators for effects of goal framing on perceived threat of climate change and willingness to sacrifice. To reconcile conflicting evidence, the study introduces and tests the distinction between gain-positive frames (positive consequences of engaging in climate protection), gain-negative frames (avoiding negative consequences when engaging in climate protection), and loss frames (negative consequences of not engaging in climate protection). Results show that gain-negative frames increase perceived threat and willingness to sacrifice, while loss frames increase them through guilt and fear. Hope is increased by a gain-positive frame but subsequently lowers both outcomes.

Binder, A. R. (2010). "Routes to Attention or Shortcuts to Apathy? Exploring Domain-Specific Communication Pathways and Their Implications for Public Perceptions of Controversial Science." Science Communication 32(3): 383-411.	Recent research in communication has emphasized interpersonal discussion as a potential mediator or moderator of the media effects on audiences. In this study, the author develops a similar model to explore public perceptions of science. In addition to communication variables, this model incorporates the notion of domain-specific pathways as determinants of attitudinal and cognitive outcomes. As a case study, the model is applied to salience of climate change, and the results reveal evidence for the mediation of media effects on salience through interpersonal discussion. Moreover, two domain-specific communication pathways-one focusing on politics and the other on science-have differential impacts on the outcome. These results are discussed in terms of integrating interpersonal communication into existing models of public perceptions of science controversy.

Binder, A. R. (2012). "Figuring Out #Fukushima: An Initial Look at Functions and Content of US Twitter Commentary About Nuclear Risk." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(2): 268-277.	This study takes an exploratory look at Twitter content in the USA about the emergency at Japan's Fukushima-Daiichi nuclear power station. In particular, I focus on the concepts of the "atrophy of vigilance'' from the risk communication literature and the message functions fulfilled for social media users. Two important results emerge from this analysis. First, Twitter content in the USA reflected a cautious approach, mainly suggesting an informative versus interpretive function and rarely mentioning risk or hazard outright. Second, this informative emphasis on risk dominated the content of tweets in the few days following the emergency but decreased substantially within 2 weeks afterwards; it was then overtaken by an interpretive risk emphasis. In addition, toward the end of this period, tweets were more likely to include hyperlinks to websites of traditional news outlets. Implications for the empirical study of social media and risk communication are discussed.

Binder, A. R., et al. (2012). "Measuring risk/benefit perceptions of emerging technologies and their potential impact on communication of public opinion toward science." Public Understanding of Science 21(7): 830-847.	This study presents a systematic comparison of two alternative measures of citizens' perceptions of risks and benefits of emerging technologies. By focusing on two specific issues (nanotechnology and biofuels), we derive several insights for the measurement of public views of science. Most importantly, our analyses reveal that relying on global, single-item measures may lead to invalid inferences regarding external influences on public perceptions, particularly those related to cognitive schema and media use. Beyond these methodological implications, this analysis suggests several reasons why researchers in the area of public attitudes toward science must revisit notions of measurement in order to accurately inform the general public, policymakers, scientists, and journalists about trends in public opinion toward emerging technologies.

Binder, A. R., et al. (2016). "Conflict or Caveats? Effects of Media Portrayals of Scientific Uncertainty on Audience Perceptions of New Technologies." Risk Analysis 36(4): 831-846.	Research indicates that uncertainty in science news stories affects public assessment of risk and uncertainty. However, the form in which uncertainty is presented may also affect people's risk and uncertainty assessments. For example, a news story that features an expert discussing both what is known and what is unknown about a topic may convey a different form of scientific uncertainty than a story that features two experts who hold conflicting opinions about the status of scientific knowledge of the topic, even when both stories contain the same information about knowledge and its boundaries. This study focuses on audience uncertainty and risk perceptions regarding the emerging science of nanotechnology by manipulating whether uncertainty in a news story about potential risks is attributed to expert sources in the form of caveats (individual uncertainty) or conflicting viewpoints (collective uncertainty). Results suggest that the type of uncertainty portrayed does not impact audience feelings of uncertainty or risk perceptions directly. Rather, the presentation of the story influences risk perceptions only among those who are highly deferent to scientific authority. Implications for risk communication theory and practice are discussed.

Binder, A. R., et al. (2011). "Interpersonal Amplification of Risk? Citizen Discussions and Their Impact on Perceptions of Risks and Benefits of a Biological Research Facility." Risk Analysis 31(2): 324-334.	Much risk communication research has demonstrated how mass media can influence individual risk perceptions, but lacks a comprehensive conceptual understanding of another key channel of communication: interpersonal discussion. Using the social amplification of risk as a theoretical framework, we consider the potential for discussions to function as amplification stations. We explore this possibility using data from a public opinion survey of residents living in potential locations for a new biological research facility in the United States. Controlling for a variety of key information variables, our results show that two dimensions of discussion-frequency and valence-have impacts on residents' perceptions of the facility's benefits and its risks. We also explore the possibility that an individual's overall attitude moderates the effect of discussion on their perceptions of risks and benefits. Our results demonstrate the potential for discussions to operate as amplifiers or attenuators of perceptions of both risks and benefits.

Birke, L. (1997). "Im/partial science: Gender ideology in molecular biology - Spanier,B." Public Understanding of Science 6(1): 108-109.
	
Biro, S. (2012). "Astronomy by Correspondence: A Study of the Appropriation of Science by the Mexican Public (1927-1947)." Science Communication 34(6): 803-819.	This study of the correspondence between the director of the National Astronomical Observatory in Mexico and a variety of individuals produces a portrait of astronomy in the Mexican culture of the period. The letters analyzed here can be divided into three groups according to the author's main interests: observing the sky, creating theories, and daily life. By inquiring about the previous knowledge, intentions, and attitudes of the senders, it is possible to understand the process of appropriation of knowledge about astronomy. The letters shed light on aspects of the public interested in science that other approaches cannot.

Biro, S. (2014). "Natural Wonders and Scientific Performance: A Mexican Eclipse and Its Uses." Science Communication 36(6): 735-753.	The observation of the total eclipse of the sun of 1923 by Mexican astronomers was a scientific expedition like many of the time. It was also the conjunction of a wonderful natural spectacle and the performance of scientific observation staged by Mexican astronomers before three audiences: other scientists, government officials, and members of society. This case study shows how demonstrations are an integral part of the practice of science and can be useful for obtaining visibility and support.

Bishop, B. (2010). "The Flooded Earth." Science Communication 32(4): 546-548.
	
Bishop, K. and W. Scott (1998). "Deconstructing action competence: developing a case for a more scientifically-attentive environmental education." Public Understanding of Science 7(3): 225-236.	Environmental education tends to be characterized by a rhetoric of action-taking, and the call for the development of personal action competence is one manifestation of this. This paper critically examines recent work on the concept of action competence. This is Seen as a set of capabilities which equip people with the ability to take purposive and focused action, and which embodies a democratic commitment to be participants in the continuing shaping of society-on their own terms and in their own ways. Action competence is seen by some as a crucial outcome for environmental education because it brings together the processes and practices of education with the need to develop democratic citizenship skills and values, and with the nature of the ecological, social and environmental crises facing the world. This paper acknowledges the contribution such concepts make to environmental education, but takes issue with a tendency within action competence to undervalue the place of science in the construction of knowledge and understanding of environmental issues. We argue that, despite being dismissed by many environmental educators, science has a significant role to play within effective environmental education, particularly through the achievement of scientific literacy and capability, both of which seem fundamental to an understanding of science, environmental issues, and their interrelationship. The paper argues for a more pragmatic conceptualization of action competence in order to encourage broadly-based and scientifically-attentive conceptions of environmental education.

Bissell, C. (2010). "The Paradox of Scientific Authority: The Role of Scientific Advice in Democracies." Public Understanding of Science 19(5): 639-639.
	
Bjorkdahl, K. and B. Carlsen (2017). "Fear of the Fear of the Flu: Assumptions About Media Effects in the 2009 Pandemic." Science Communication 39(3): 358-381.	In this article, we present a qualitative study of the Norwegian print news coverage of the 2009 pandemic. In initial research, we found fear to be a notable aspect of the coverage. In studying a relevant subsample in-depth, we discovered that, although there was no sound basis on which to make conclusions about what effects the coverage was having on the public, various actorsincluding media themselvescame on the mediated scene to express fears that it would create fear and panic. We argue that the mediation of the pandemic can hence be seen as a peculiar case of the third person effect, that is, the phenomenon that people tend to believe that other people are more severely influenced by the mass media than what they believe themselves to be. This, we suggest, has some implications for how we think about communication in future pandemics and other crises.

Blackman, D. and A. M. Benson (2012). "Overcoming knowledge stickiness in scientific knowledge transfer." Public Understanding of Science 21(5): 573-589.	This paper explores the transfer and dissemination of knowledge between scientists, the volunteers who collect the knowledge and the communities which learn from it in order to implement change. The role of knowledge "stickiness" in the reduction of knowledge transfer is outlined. The characteristics of the knowledge and the situation combine to develop a range of factors, "stickiness predictors,"which can deter knowledge transfer. These stickiness predictors are used to analyse data gathered from three qualitative cases, which were developed from both participant observation and semi-structured interviews studying the interactions between the scientists, volunteers and organisations. A reconsideration of the way that knowledge and knowledge transfer are being conceptualised by scientists is proposed, in order to enable "stickiness" factors to be recognised and managed, thereby increasing the potential for scientific literacy. A move towards a more broadly constituted community of practice is proposed.

Bleicher, A. (2012). "The Paradoxes of Transparency: Science and the Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries Management in Europe." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 254-254.
	
Blennow, K. (2008). "Risk management in Swedish forestry - Policy formation and fulfilment of goals." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 237-254.	The formation of a risk management policy in Swedish forestry and its consequences for fulfilment of goals was analysed. The risk of wind damage was used as a model where an apparent gap between stated accepted risk and extent of risk-reducing measures taken among south Swedish non-industrial private forest owners was used as a starting point. The results of an enquiry, and personal experiences from the debate after an extensive wind damage event in January 2005, were used and complemented study of literature. It was concluded that risks have not been particularly actively managed in the Swedish forestry culture. This was explained by notions of seeing (i) risks such as wind damage as a natural hazard rather than a technological risk that can be modulated, and (ii) forestry as an enterprise free of valuation in which value aspects of risk were neglected. A narrow agenda in Swedish forest research influenced the risk management policy, where forest consultants played an important role as a link between science and practice and between the public and the private. Neither the legislator nor the forestry consultants declared how they weighted risk which reduced the fulfilment of goals. At the national level relaxation of regulations after 1993 has not yet resulted in markedly diversified privately owned forests and spreading of risk as intended, and the management of the risk of wind damage before January 2005 was in many cases not adapted to the risk the individual forest owner was prepared to take. The results were discussed with respect to possibilities for improved fulfilment of goals in Swedish forestry by facilitating more active risk management.

Blok, A. (2007). "Experts on public trial: on democratizing expertise through a Danish consensus conference." Public Understanding of Science 16(2): 163-182.	Citizen deliberation on technoscientific developments is regularly regarded as a hallmark of Danish democracy, embodied in particular by the Danish Board of Technology. Few empirically guided questions have been raised, however, as to how the Board's democratic projects actually work. Through a case study of the May 2003 Danish consensus conference on environmental economics as a policy tool, the article reflects on the politics of expert authority permeating practices of public participation. Adopting concepts from the sociology of scientific knowledge (SSK), the conference is seen as opening up the '' black box '' of environmental economics, forcing economists into attempted justifications of their shared normative and methodological commitments. The failure of environmental economists to reflect on their social value positions is suggested as key to understanding their less -than- successful defense in the citizen perspective. Further, consensus conferences are viewed alternatively as '' expert dissent conferences,'' serving to disclose a multiplicity of expert commitments. From this perspective, some challenges for democratizing expertise through future exercises in public participation are suggested.

Blok, A., et al. (2008). "Social identities and risk: expert and lay imaginations on pesticide use." Public Understanding of Science 17(2): 189-209.	Expert-based environmental and health risk regulation is widely believed to suffer from a lack of public understanding and legitimacy. On controversial issues such as genetically modified organisms and food-related chemicals, a "lay-expert discrepancy" in the assessment of risks is clearly visible. In this article, we analyze the relationship between scientific experts and ordinary lay citizens in the context of risks from pesticide usage in Denmark. Drawing on concepts from the "sociology of scientific knowledge" (SSK), we contend that differences in risk perception must be understood at the level of social identities. On the basis of qualitative interviews with citizens and experts, respectively, we focus on the multiple ways in which identities come to be employed in actors' risk accounts. Empirically, we identify salient characteristics of "typical" imagined experts and lay-people, while arguing that these conceptions vary identifiably in-between four groups of citizens and experts. On the basis of our findings, some implications for bridging the lay-expert discrepancy on risk issues are sketched out.

Bloomfield, B. P. and B. Doolin (2013). "Symbolic Communication in Public Protest Over Genetic Modification: Visual Rhetoric, Symbolic Excess, and Social Mores." Science Communication 35(4): 502-527.	This article considers the protests through which a group of New Zealand womenMAdGE (Mothers Against Genetic Engineering in Food and the Environment)enacted a campaign against genetic modification in food. Referring to the predominant visual/symbolic makeup of its efforts to communicate an alternative perspective on the research involved, the article examines the theatrics, posters, and disruptive protest of MAdGE's campaign. A major feature of the analysis concerns a billboard that provoked outrage in some quarters and led to official deliberations concerning the advertising code of practice in which public morality and the epistemic authority of science were intertwined.

Blue, G. (2010). "Food, publics, science." Public Understanding of Science 19(2): 147-154.	This paper draws attention to food as a site around which a historically particular form of public engagement has emerged. In the past decade, some of the most lively debates and policy actions for science and publics have focused on food related issues: first with BSE and subsequently with genetically modified organisms. Even though much of the literature surrounding publics and science acknowledges that the very definition of "publics" is shifting, little attention has been paid to food as a significant arena in which publics are engaging in politically motivated challenges to techno-scientific practices, policies and institutions. Taking food seriously means contextualizing publics as well as extending discursive models of democratic engagement to embrace consumer practices.

Board, N. S. (2004). "Report: Excerpts from science and engineering indicators 2004." Science Communication 26(2): 219-222.	Excerpts from Science and Engineering Indicators 2004, the biennial report to the U.S. Congress from the National Science Board, present data from a variety of sources on public attitudes toward and public understanding of science and technology in the United States and Europe.

Board, N. S. (2000). "Excerpts from science and engineering indicators 2000." Science Communication 22(2): 226-230.	Excerpts from Science and Engineering Indicators 2000 the biennial report to Congress from the National Science Board, present new data on public attitudes toward and public understanding of science and technology. Selections from the chapter on the significance of information technologies (IT) are provided as well.

Boase, N., et al. (2017). "Evaluating the Mental Models Approach to Developing a Risk Communication: A Scoping Review of the Evidence." Risk Analysis 37(11): 2132-2149.	Risk communication is fundamental in ensuring people are equipped with the knowledge needed to navigate varied risks. One generally well-regarded framework for the development of such communications is the mental models approach to risk communication (MMARC). Developed during the 1990s, the MMARC has been applied to a range of health, technological, and environmental risks. However, as yet, we know of no attempt to collate and review articles that evaluated communications developed using the MMARC. This article took a first step at addressing this gap by conducting a scoping review that aimed to begin to explore the fidelity with which the approach has been applied, explore whether there appeared to be sufficient studies to warrant a future systematic review, and identify future research questions. Although the initial search found over 100 articles explicitly applying the MMARC, only 12 of these developed a risk-related communication that was tested against a control (and thus included in the current review). All studies reported a positive effect of the MMARC versus control communication for at least some of the outcome measures (knowledge being the most prevalent). However, there was wide variation between studies including type of control, outcomes assessed, and only five studies reported adopting a randomized design. The review highlights both the need for greater fidelity in the way future studies operationalize the MMARC approach, and suggests that a full-scale systematic review of the MMARC literature appears justified, especially given the possibility of a large gray literature in this area.

Bocking, S. (2012). "Mobile knowledge and the media: The movement of scientific information in the context of environmental controversy." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 705-723.	This paper examines the role of the news media in transnational flows of knowledge. Its focus is on salmon aquaculture, an industry operating in Europe, Canada, and elsewhere. To examine the movement of knowledge from Europe to Canada, a sample of 323 news stories mentioning European aquaculture was drawn from 1261 stories about aquaculture published in Canadian newspapers between 1982 and 2007. Their analysis demonstrates the role of the media in selectively moving and shaping scientific knowledge. This role has been influenced by numerous factors, including journalistic norms, source strategies, and the assertion of trust, relevance and scientific credibility. This analysis corrects the common assumption in the internet era that information flows freely: new technology has not obviated the role of social factors. The media's role in the movement of knowledge also has implications for the geography of science, and for the status of science as a situated practice.

Boehmert, C., et al. (2017). "The Effects of Precautionary Messages about Electromagnetic Fields from Mobile Phones and Base Stations Revisited: The Role of Recipient Characteristics." Risk Analysis 37(3): 583-597.	Precautionary messages have been shown to increase recipients' threat perceptions about radio-frequency electromagnetic fields (RF-EMFs) emitted by mobile phones and mobile phone base stations. The current study explored the interplay of variables on the side of message recipients with this effect. The individual difference variables of interest were gender, trait anxiety, personal need for structure, and personal fear of invalidity. Furthermore, the study determined whether the increased threat perception is accompanied by emotional distress. A total of 298 university students answered a survey after reading either a basic text about RF-EMFs or a text including precautionary information. Linear multiple regression with interactions analyses showed that the effect of precautionary messages differed for people with different levels of trait anxiety. How trait anxiety was related to the effect of precautionary messages in turn depended on participants' gender. Personal need for structure and personal fear of invalidity were mostly unrelated to the effect of precautionary messages. Regarding participants' emotional distress, we found no difference in state anxiety scores between those participants who received precautionary information and those who did not. The findings show that the effects of precautionary messages on threat perception depend on individual difference variables such as recipients' trait anxiety and gender. Also, the fact that precautionary communication did not result in heightened state anxiety challenges the assumption that precautionary messages induce fear or anxiety.

Boehnert, J. (2016). "The Green Economy: Reconceptualizing the Natural Commons as Natural Capital." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(4): 395-417.	The green economy is an emergent approach to sustainable development launched at Rio+20. Herein environmental decision-making is increasingly achieved through economistic processes and logic. The natural commons are quantified and managed as natural capital. This paper summarizes the trajectory of the project and its ideological framework. It examines various conceptualizations of economic approaches to the environment and considers philosophical, methodological, and political problems associated with the green economy project. In the face of very different definitions of what constitutes a green economy, environmental communicators face a situation characterized by discursive confusion as the complexity of natural capital accounting processes conceal new political configurations. Counter movements argue that the green economy program is performing ideological work that uses language of environmentalism to obscure an intensified agenda of neoliberal governance and capital accumulation. The concept now has contradictory meanings. Environmental communicators have an important role to play in exposing the contested nature of the project and in helping to define the emerging green economy.

Boelter, F. W., et al. (2016). "Characterizing and Communicating Risk with Exposure Reconstruction and Bayesian Analysis: Historical Locomotive Maintenance/Repair Associated with Asbestos Woven Tape Pipe Lagging." Risk Analysis 36(2): 228-243.	Our reconstructed historical work scenarios incorporating a vintage 1950s locomotive can assist in better understanding the historical asbestos exposures associated with past maintenance and repairs and fill a literature data gap. Air sampling data collected during the exposure scenarios and analyzed by NIOSH 7400 (PCM) and 7402 (PCME) methodologies show personal breathing zone asbestiform fiber exposures were below the current OSHA exposure limits for the eight-hour TWA permissible exposure limit (PEL) of 0.1 f/cc (range <0.007-0.064 PCME f/cc) and the 30-minute short-term excursion limit (EL) of 1.0 f/cc (range <0.045-0.32 PCME f/cc) and orders of magnitude below historic OSHA PEL and ACGIH TLVs. Bayesian decision analysis (BDA) results demonstrate that the 95th percentile point estimate falls into an AIHA exposure category 3 or 4 as compared to the current PEL and category 1 when compared to the historic PEL. BDA results demonstrate that bystander exposures would be classified as category 0. Our findings were also significantly below the published calcium magnesium insulations exposure range of 2.5 to 7.5 f/cc reported for historic work activities of pipefitters, mechanics, and boilermakers. Diesel-electric locomotive pipe systems were typically insulated with a woven tape lagging that may have been chrysotile asbestos and handled, removed, and reinstalled during repair and maintenance activities. We reconstructed historical work scenarios containing asbestos woven tape pipe lagging that have not been characterized in the published literature. The historical work scenarios were conducted by a retired railroad pipefitter with 37 years of experience working with materials and locomotives.

Bogner, A. and H. Torgersen (2015). "Different ways of problematising biotechnology - and what it means for technology governance." Public Understanding of Science 24(5): 516-532.	To understand controversies over technologies better, we propose the concept of problematisation'. Drawing on Foucault's idea of problematisation and on the concept of frames in media research, we identify characteristic forms of problematising biotechnology in pertaining controversies, typically emphasising ethical, risk or economic aspects. They provide a common basis for disputes and allow participants to argue effectively. The different forms are important for how controversies are negotiated, which experts get involved, what role public engagement plays and how political decisions are legitimised - in short, for technology governance. We develop a heuristic for analysing the link between forms of problematisation and different options for technology governance. Applied to synthetic biology, we discuss different problematisations of this technology and the implications for governance.

Bohm, G. and H. R. Pfister (2017). "The perceiver's social role and a risk's causal structure as determinants of environmental risk evaluation." Journal of Risk Research 20(6): 732-759.	We present a dual-process risk perception model that integrates cognitive and emotional as well as consequentialist and deontological components by distinguishing between two modes of evaluative processing: (a) a consequentialist evaluation that focuses on potential consequences and (b) a deontological evaluation that focuses on moral values. Each of these two modes is assumed to trigger specific cognitive evaluations, specific emotions, and specific behavioral tendencies concerning a perceived risk. We conducted an experiment (N = 270) that tested whether the relative dominance of the two evaluative modes would depend on the causal structure of the environmental risk being evaluated and on the social role of the evaluator. Three types of causal structure were varied by providing scenario information: (a) anthropogenic risks that endanger only nature, (b) naturally caused risks with potential harmful consequences for humans, and (c) anthropogenic risks that may harm humans. Participants evaluated each scenario from the perspective of one of three social roles: mayor, expecting parent, and environmental activist. For each scenario, participants specified their focus and evaluated the event's morality and perceived risk, the intensity of specific emotions, and their preferences for prospective behaviors. Results showed that the consequentialist evaluation was generally stronger than the deontological evaluation and was less affected by the experimental manipulations. The deontological evaluation was substantially affected by the risk's causal structure. It was stronger for anthropogenic than for natural causation; risks caused by humans were associated with greater perceived moral blameworthiness, more intense morality-based emotions (e.g. outrage), and a stronger tendency to perform agent-related behaviors (e.g. aggression) than naturally occurring risks. The effect of the social role was less pronounced than that of the causal structure. Furthermore, the effect of an evaluative focus on behavior was fully mediated by emotions for deontological evaluations and partially mediated for consequentialist evaluations. The implications for environmental risk perception and communication are discussed.

Bohnke, M. and S. Machura (2003). "Young Tom Edison - Edison, the Man: biopic of the dynamic entrepreneur." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 319-333.	This article examines two classical examples of biographical films, Young Tom Edison and Edison, the Man, exploring the ways in which popular motion pictures build an image of entrepreneurial inventorship. Both films reflect the time in which they were produced. In 1940, the Great Depression was not forgotten and the film makers venture to re-establish faith in the capitalist system. In pursuing this, they skillfully employ common myths and standards of story-telling. The films are saturated with period detail of nineteenth-century Americana and they re-enact the familiar patterns of the biopic genre. Edison manages to rise from humble beginnings to a world-famous inventor-hero. Around the inventor's figure, several topics are constructed, such as courage and responsibility, Edison's allegedly ambivalent relation to money and commercial success, supposed conflict with monopolistic capital, comradeship, leadership and genius. This celebration of the scientific hero is coupled with a sacralization of the act of inventing. In sum, Thomas Alva Edison is molded into an archetype of a Schumpetarian dynamic entrepreneur. As such, Edison destroys old technologies and industries and paves the way for the better.

Boholm, A. (2008). "The public meeting as a theatre of dissent: risk and hazard in land use and environmental planning." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 119-140.	Land-use and environmental planning typically involves diverse actors such as representatives of government authorities and administrations, special interest organisations, scientific experts, lawyers, stakeholders and concerned citizens. During the course of the planning process, communication is not limited to written documents. The Swedish Environmental Code also calls for public meetings and consultation efforts with stakeholders. Considering that public meetings have a prominent role in environmental planning, there is surprisingly little research on the form, content and development over time of face-to-face communication and social interaction taking place. This article addresses communication and interaction at public meetings concerning a facility siting project of considerable longevity - the building of a railway tunnel through the Hallandsas in southern Sweden. Using data from participant observation of local public consultation meetings regarding the Hallandsas railway tunnel through a period of several years, this paper analyses and discusses communication about environmental risk. The theoretical foundation derives from pragmatic communication theory, Niklas Luhmann's distinction between risk and hazard, and social anthropological theory on agency and conflict generation in communication.

Boholm, A. (2008). "New perspectives on risk communication: uncertainty in a complex society." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 1-3.
	
Boholm, A. (2009). "Speaking of Risk: Matters of Context." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(3): 335-354.	The risk communication (RC) field is dominated by the practical and normative socio-technical aim of improving communication on risk (CR), especially from the viewpoint of regulatory agencies and government administrations. Despite some change of scope and orientation over the past 30 years, two theoretical ideas have persisted: the subjective-objective risk dichotomy and the transmission (also known as code) model of communication. This theoretical legacy makes context a blind spot in RC. The study of CR themes should consider (1) the socially constructed nature of risk and (2) communication as a situated social practice of information sharing. Results of a case study of public participation in a controversial railway tunnel project in the south of Sweden, offer lessons for future research pointing to crucial contextual dimensions of CR. It is argued that the variable ontology of risk, the constitutive nature of power relationships and the practical rationality of actors must be taken into account in research on the social CR.

Boholm, A. (2011). "Nanotechnology, risk and communication." Journal of Risk Research 14(10): 1263-1265.
	
Boholm, A. and H. Corvellec (2011). "A relational theory of risk." Journal of Risk Research 14(2): 175-190.	This paper outlines a relational theory of risk. According to this theory, risk emerges from situated cognition that establishes a relationship of risk between a risk object and an object at risk, so that the risk object is considered, under certain contingent circumstances and in some causal way, to threaten the valued object at risk. This relational theory of risk is a theory about the interpretative nature of risk that answers the key theoretical and practical questions of why and how something is considered a risk. The relational theory of risk allows for the interpretation of risk situations as culturally informed, and thereby suggests new ways to approach risk communication, risk governance, and risk management by taking into account bounded rationalities of thought and action.

Boholm, M. (2012). "The Semantic Distinction Between "Risk" and "Danger": A Linguistic Analysis." Risk Analysis 32(2): 281-293.	The analysis combines frame semantic and corpus linguistic approaches in analyzing the role of agency and decision making in the semantics of the words risk and danger (both nominal and verbal uses). In frame semantics, the meanings of risk and of related words, such as danger, are analyzed against the background of a specific cognitive-semantic structure (a frame) comprising frame elements such as Protagonist, Bad Outcome, Decision, Possession, and Source. Empirical data derive from the British National Corpus (100 million words). Results indicate both similarities and differences in use. First, both risk and danger are commonly used to represent situations having potential negative consequences as the result of agency. Second, risk and danger, especially their verbal uses (to risk, to endanger), differ in agent-victim structure, i.e., risk is used to express that a person affected by an action is also the agent of the action, while endanger is used to express that the one affected is not the agent. Third, risk, but not danger, tends to be used to represent rational and goal-directed action. The results therefore to some extent confirm the analysis of risk and danger suggested by German sociologist Niklas Luhmann. As a point of discussion, the present findings arguably have implications for risk communication.

Boholm, M. (2018). "Risk association: towards a linguistically informed framework for analysing risk in discourse." Journal of Risk Research 21(4): 480-501.	This article addresses a fundamental feature of risk discourse, namely, risk association, defined as the process whereby an agent establishes a connection between something, x, and the notion of risk. In addition, risk association can be defined as the result of such a process, i.e. an established connection between x and risk. A special case of risk association is when x is linked to harmful properties and thus is represented as a risk. Although fundamental to any analysis of socio-cognitive attention to risks, the process of risk association is often taken for granted in risk research. A layered model of risk association is presented taking linguistic practices, i.e. the use of words, as the point of departure. Accordingly, there are both central and more peripheral means of risk association. The central means include the morpheme risk'. More peripheral means of risk association are close synonyms and antonyms of risk (e.g. hazard', danger', safety' and security') and other related words (e.g. crisis', protection' and threat'). For an illustration, the model is applied to an empirical example: the instructions for Swedish government agencies. The example illustrates how the exact vocabulary considered for operationalization in analysis has important consequences for the conclusions that follow with respect to the extent to which government agencies are associated with risk.

Boholm, M., et al. (2015). "Dis-Ag-reement: the construction and negotiation of risk in the Swedish controversy over antibacterial silver." Journal of Risk Research 18(1): 93-110.	What constitutes a potentially hazardous object is often debated. This article analyses the polemic construction and negotiation of risk in the Swedish controversy over the use of antibacterial silver in health care and consumer products. This debate engages the media, government agencies, parliament and government, non-governmental organizations and companies. Texts and websites from these actors were studied using content analysis. Antibacterial silver is construed by some actors as a risk object with harmful effects on a series of objects at risk: the environment, public health, organisms and sewage treatment. In contrast, other actors deny that antibacterial silver is a risk object, instead construing it as mitigating risk. In such a schema, antibacterial silver is conceived of as managing the risk objects of bacteria and micro-organisms, in turn managing the risk objects of infection, bad smell and washing, and in turn helping the environment and public health (objects at risk). The structure of the debate suggests two basic modes of risk communication. First, antibacterial silver is construed as a risk object, endangering a variety of objects at risk, such as organisms, public health, the environment and sewage treatment. Second, this association between antibacterial silver and objects at risk is obstructed, by denying that antibacterial silver is a risk object or by associating silver with the benefit of mitigating risk.

Boholm, M., et al. (2016). "The Concepts of Risk, Safety, and Security: Applications in Everyday Language." Risk Analysis 36(2): 320-338.	The concepts of risk, safety, and security have received substantial academic interest. Several assumptions exist about their nature and relation. Besides academic use, the words risk, safety, and security are frequent in ordinary language, for example, in media reporting. In this article, we analyze the concepts of risk, safety, and security, and their relation, based on empirical observation of their actual everyday use. The behavioral profiles of the nouns risk, safety, and security and the adjectives risky, safe, and secure are coded and compared regarding lexical and grammatical contexts. The main findings are: (1) the three nouns risk, safety, and security, and the two adjectives safe and secure, have widespread use in different senses, which will make any attempt to define them in a single unified manner extremely difficult; (2) the relationship between the central risk terms is complex and only partially confirms the distinctions commonly made between the terms in specialized terminology; (3) whereas most attempts to define risk in specialized terminology have taken the term to have a quantitative meaning, nonquantitative meanings dominate in everyday language, and numerical meanings are rare; and (4) the three adjectives safe, secure, and risky are frequently used in comparative form. This speaks against interpretations that would take them as absolute, all-or-nothing concepts.

Bolsen, T. and M. A. Shapiro (2018). "The US News Media, Polarization on Climate Change, and Pathways to Effective Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 149-163.	The news media are a central source of information about climate change for most people. Through frames, media transmit information that shape how people understand climate change as well as the actions they are ultimately willing to support to address the problem. This article reviews the rise of climate change in the US news media and the emergence of related frames in public discourse. In doing so, it traces the roots of partisan divisions over climate change and highlights the role that events, journalistic practices, technological changes, and individual-level factors such as ideological and partisan identity have played in fostering polarization. The article concludes by identifying the core challenges facing communicators who seek to build consensus for action on climate change and highlights the most viable solutions for achieving success.

Bonfadelli, H., et al. (2002). "Biotechnology in Switzerland: high on the public agenda, but only moderate support." Public Understanding of Science 11(2): 113-130.	In Switzerland, there have been intensive public debates about biotechnology because of the specific Swiss political system of direct democracy that led, in 1992 and 1998, to two national referenda on biotechnology regulation. As a result, the Swiss population is well informed but skeptical about this technology. These findings contrast with the deficit model of public understanding of science, which predicts a positive correlation between knowledge of, and support for, a specific technology. What role did the media play in the development of public opinion? This question is discussed because of a content analysis (time series) of national newspapers. In addition, representative surveys and focus groups yield insights into the public perception of biotechnology and the influence of mass communication for opinion formation.

Bonney, R., et al. (2016). "Can citizen science enhance public understanding of science?" Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 2-16.	Over the past 20 years, thousands of citizen science projects engaging millions of participants in collecting and/or processing data have sprung up around the world. Here we review documented outcomes from four categories of citizen science projects which are defined by the nature of the activities in which their participants engage - Data Collection, Data Processing, Curriculum-based, and Community Science. We find strong evidence that scientific outcomes of citizen science are well documented, particularly for Data Collection and Data Processing projects. We find limited but growing evidence that citizen science projects achieve participant gains in knowledge about science knowledge and process, increase public awareness of the diversity of scientific research, and provide deeper meaning to participants' hobbies. We also find some evidence that citizen science can contribute positively to social well-being by influencing the questions that are being addressed and by giving people a voice in local environmental decision making. While not all citizen science projects are intended to achieve a greater degree of public understanding of science, social change, or improved science -society relationships, those projects that do require effort and resources in four main categories: (1) project design, (2) outcomes measurement, (3) engagement of new audiences, and (4) new directions for research.

Boone, I., et al. (2010). "NUSAP: a method to evaluate the quality of assumptions in quantitative microbial risk assessment." Journal of Risk Research 13(3): 337-352.	The Numeral Unit Spread Assessment Pedigree (NUSAP) system was implemented to evaluate assumptions in a quantitative microbial risk assessment (QMRA) model for Salmonella spp. in minced pork meat. This QMRA model allows the testing of mitigation strategies for the reduction of human salmonellosis and aims to serve as a basis for science-based policy making. The NUSAP method was used to assess the subjective component of assumptions in the QMRA model by a set of four pedigree criteria: 'the influence of situational limitations', 'plausibility', 'choice space' and 'the agreement among peers'. After identifying 13 key assumptions relevant for the QMRA model, a workshop was organized to assess the importance of these assumptions on the output of the QMRA. The quality of the assumptions was visualized using diagnostic and kite diagrams. The diagnostic diagram pinpointed assumptions with a high degree of subjectivity and a high 'expected influence on the model results' score. Examples of those assumptions that should be dealt with care are the assumptions regarding the concentration of Salmonella on the pig carcass at the beginning of the slaughter process and the assumptions related to the Salmonella prevalence in the slaughter process. The kite diagrams allowed a clear overview of the pedigree scores for each assumption as well as a representation of expert (dis)agreement. The evaluation of the assumptions using the NUSAP system enhanced the debate on the uncertainty and its communication in the results of a QMRA model. It highlighted the model's strong and weak points and was helpful for redesigning critical modules. Since the evaluation of assumptions allows a more critical approach of the QMRA process, it is useful for policy makers as it aims to increase the transparency and acceptance of management decisions based on a QMRA model.

Borchelt, R. (2009). "Journalism, Science and Society." Science Communication 30(4): 544-547.
	
Borchelt, R. (2013). "Communication and Engagement with Science and Technology: Issues and Dilemmas." Science Communication 35(5): 679-681.
	
Borchelt, R. E. (2001). "Communicating the future - Report of the research roadmap panel for public communication of science and technology in the twenty-first century." Science Communication 23(2): 194-211.	This article reports the principal findings and recommendations of the Research Roadmap Panel for Public Communication of Science and Technology in the Twenty-first Century. Beginning in 1998, the Space Sciences Laboratory at NASA's George C. Marshall Space Flight Center chartered a fifteen-member working group to develop a research strategy that would address the big questions in science communication academic research and identify the best practices in science and technology communication as they are being implemented in research institutions across the United States and abroad. The working group met eight times at various U.S. research institutions, invited science communicators and others to meet with them, and solicited public and other comment in preparation for this article.

Bord, R. J., et al. (2000). "In what sense does the public need to understand global climate change?" Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 205-218.	In a survey of 1,218 Americans, the key determinant of behavioral intentions to address global warming is a correct understanding of the causes of global warming. Knowing what causes climate change, and what does not, is the most powerful predictor of both stated intentions to take voluntary actions and to vote on hypothetical referenda to enact new government policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Identifying bogus causes (e.g., insecticides) correlates with the belief that the globe will warm, but is only weakly related to voluntary actions and not at all related to support for government policies. General pro-environmental beliefs and perceptions that global warming poses serious threats to society also help to explain behavioral intentions. The explanatory power of an air pollution framework is substantial in bivariate analyses, but has little explanatory power in multivariate analyses that include knowledge, risk perceptions, and general environmental beliefs. Translating public concern for global warming into effective action requires real knowledge. General environmental concern or concern for the negative effects of air pollution appear not to motivate people to support programs designed to control global warming.

Bord, R. J. and R. E. Oconnor (1990). "Risk Communication, Knowledge, and Attitudes - Explaining Reactions to a Technology Perceived as Risky." Risk Analysis 10(4): 499-506.
	
Bord, R. J. and R. E. Oconnor (1992). "Determinants of Risk Perceptions of a Hazardous-Waste Site." Risk Analysis 12(3): 411-416.	A before-stimulus-after quasi-experimental design is used to assess the factors relating to risk perceptions of a hazardous waste site. First, a pretest obtains measures of attitudes and beliefs about hazardous waste and waste sites. Second, a detailed hypothetical "Superfund" scenario, including a complex cleanup plan, is introduced. Finally, indices of health risk estimates, trust, knowledge, and other pertinent beliefs are obtained. Levels of concern, both before and after cleanup, are the dependent variables. Independent variables include risk management options, health risk estimates, trust, and five sociodemographic characteristics. Concern is extremely high prior to cleanup and moderately high after cleanup. Concern is a clear function of health risk estimates. Toxic chemicals from waste sites are viewed as a major cause of multiple health problems, especially cancers. Accurate health risk estimates moderate fears and are linked to levels of education. Education, however, does not explain concern. Trust is a major factor explaining concern and health risk estimates. The implications of these findings for risk communication is discussed.

Bore, I. L. K. and G. Reid (2014). "Laughing in the Face of Climate Change? Satire as a Device for Engaging Audiences in Public Debate." Science Communication 36(4): 454-478.	Satire has long offered social and political commentary while entertaining audiences. Focusing on a Canadian stage play and its local reception, this article considers some of the key benefits and challenges of using satire to promote public engagement with climate change science. It demonstrates that satire can promote active and positive engagement with climate change debates. However, using satire risks confining representations to the humorous realm and requires communicators to consider the humor preferences of different publics. The article proposes recommendations for using satire in science communications.

Borener, S. S. and V. S. Guzhva (2014). "Analysis of the Effects of Communication and Surveillance Facility Service Outages on Traffic Separations." Risk Analysis 34(9): 1753-1762.	This study examines air traffic separations in the service volumes of communication and surveillance facilities that experienced service outages. The data sample consists of 338 unscheduled service outages that happened in 2010 and 2011 at facilities located in the vicinity of 15 major traffic hubs. For each outage, radar track data were collected and used to calculate traffic separations during the period of 30 minutes before to 30 minutes after an outage. Then, the separation index, which indicates the percentage of horizontal separation retained between two aircraft at the same altitude, was estimated. The separation index and loss of separation events were analyzed using lognormal and negative binomial regression models. The results suggest that the count of separation events peaks during the 15 minutes after an outage. In addition, traffic collision avoidance system resolution advisory (TCAS RA) encounters and Category A separation events are 1.31 times more likely during the 30 minutes following the beginning of a service outage, as compared to the 30 minutes before the outage, for both types of facilities. Also, the separation index values are 19% lower following a surveillance facility outage and 4% lower following a communication facility service loss. This study provides evidence that unscheduled service outages of air traffic management facilities are associated with lost or reduced traffic separations and thus can be considered precursors to hazardous loss of separation events.

Borwein, J., et al. (2012). "Remote Collaboration: Six Years of the Coast-to-Coast Seminar Series." Science Communication 34(3): 419-428.	In this article, the authors describe the Coast-to-Coast Seminar Series, a pan-Canadian scientific event that has been running since 2005. A short history of the series and a listing of the various stages of its development and related challenges in communicating complex scientific topics to audiences at a number of remote sites is provided. In particular, the authors revisit the original goals of the series and discuss in detail its actual outcomes. They finish by mentioning some present and future applications of their experience as organizers of the series.

Bos, M. J. W., et al. (2009). "Adolescent responses toward a new technology: first associations, information seeking and affective responses to ecogenomics." Public Understanding of Science 18(2): 243-253.	This paper reports on an exploratory study among adolescents (N = 752) who were introduced to the emerging technology of ecogenomics for the first time. An online survey focused on their associations with the term ecogenomics, their planned information seeking behaviors if they were to acquire information about the new technology, and their first affective responses toward ecogenomics after having read some introductory information about it. Adolescents were found to associate ecogenomics most frequently with economy. Although the Internet was the most popular medium to be used in their planned information seeking behaviors, books and science communication professionals were judged as the most trustworthy information sources. After having read the introductory information about ecogenomics most adolescents reported positive affective responses toward the new technology.

Bos, M. J. W., et al. (2010). "Early Exposures to Ecogenomics: Effects of Priming and Web Site Interactivity Among Adolescents." Science Communication 32(2): 232-255.	In the context of public introductions to emerging technologies, this study examined effects of priming and Web site interactivity on adolescents' attitude development and information processing. In a four (priming) by three (interactivity levels) experiment, participants (N = 273) were required to search for and process Web-based information about ecogenomics. Results showed that priming ecogenomics as biotechnology, ecology, economy, or science in general did not affect attitude development. Interactivity levels, manipulated as low, medium, and high, were found to influence adolescents' time invested in the information-processing task, perceived cognitive load, and Web site evaluations.

Bostanci, A. (2010). "A Metaphor Made in Public." Science Communication 32(4): 467-488.	The preliminary results of human genome research have become widely known as "drafts of the human genome." Drawing on the interaction theory of metaphor, this article shows that take-up of the notion of a draft and its elaboration as a scientific metaphor was contingent on interactions with broader audiences.The notion of a draft was thus not merely a metonym of the popular but often-criticized Book of Life metaphor for the human genome.

Bostrom, A. (2008). "Lead is like mercury: risk comparisons, analogies and mental models." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 99-117.	This paper reviews evidence for the use of analogies and comparisons to understand risks and conflation of different risks, from mental model studies of lead paint hazard, global climate change and smallpox disease and vaccine. For each study participants use analogies with other risks explicitly, and often draw inferences based on their experiences or knowledge of those other risks. In the case of lead paint, study participants judged options for testing and mitigating lead paint by analogy with risks as diverse as radon and mercury, with corresponding differences in their assessments of proposed strategies. Mental models of smallpox disease and vaccine are often explicitly based on analogies with chickenpox, which is much more familiar to study participants. Many studies of climate change have demonstrated conflation of stratospheric ozone depletion with global warming from the greenhouse effect. Some study participants adopt other frames, such as weather, which affects their inferences in predictable ways. These findings are discussed in light of theories on the role of analogy and metaphor in thinking and inference. Taking into account the prevalence, structure and pitfalls of comparisons and analogies should help risk communication designers better realize their potential.

Bostrom, A. (2014). "Progress in risk communication since the 1989 NRC report: response to 'Four questions for risk communication' by Roger Kasperson." Journal of Risk Research 17(10): 1259-1264.	While lauding research progress in risk communication, Roger Kasperson despairs of change in risk communication practices. Advances are nevertheless evident on several fronts, including the development and application of pragmatic and evidence-driven approaches to risk communication design, implementation of new engagement strategies, and efforts to communicate uncertainty. Systematic reviews in risk communication research are starting to appear, and will likely help clarify the lessons to be learned. Progress in these areas suggests building on current momentum by continuing to encourage: (1) systematic reviews of research and trends in risk communication; (2) judgment and decision-making research to inform risk communication design; and (3) integrative risk communication research, across disciplines and application domains.

Bostrom, A., et al. (1994). "Evaluating Risk Communications - Completing and Correcting Mental Models of Hazardous Processes .2." Risk Analysis 14(5): 789-798.	We propose a decision-analytic framework, called the mental models approach, for evaluating the impact of risk communications.  It employs multiple evaluation methods, including think-aloud protocol analysis, problem solving, and a true-false test that allows respondents to express uncertainty about their answers.  The approach is illustrated in empirical comparisons of three brochures about indoor radon.

Bostrom, A. and R. E. Lofstedt (2010). "Nanotechnology Risk Communication Past and Prologue." Risk Analysis 30(11): 1645-1662.	Nanotechnologies operate at atomic, molecular, and macromolecular scales, at scales where matter behaves differently than at larger scales and quantum effects can dominate. Nanotechnologies have captured the imagination of science fiction writers as science, engineering, and industry have leapt to the challenge of harnessing them. Applications are proliferating. In contrast, despite recent progress the regulatory landscape is not yet coherent, and public awareness of nanotechnology remains low. This has led risk researchers and critics of current nanotechnology risk communication efforts to call for proactive strategies that do more than address facts, that include and go beyond the public participation stipulated by some government acts. A redoubling of nanotechnology risk communication efforts could enable consumer choice and informed public discourse about regulation and public investments in science and safety.

Bostrom, A., et al. (1994). "What Do People Know About Global Climate-Change .1. Mental Models." Risk Analysis 14(6): 959-970.	A set of exploratory studies and mental model interviews was conducted in order to characterize public understanding of climate change.  In general, respondents regarded global warming as both bad and highly likely.  Many believed that warming has already occurred.  They tended to confuse stratospheric ozone depletion with the greenhouse effect and weather with climate.  Automobile use, heat and emissions from industrial processes, aerosol spray cans, and pollution in general were frequently perceived as primary causes of global warming.  Additionally, the ''greenhouse effect'' was often interpreted literally as the cause of a hot and steamy climate.  The effects attributed to climate change often included increased skin cancer and changed agricultural yields.  The mitigation and control strategies proposed by interviewees typically focused on general pollution control, with few specific links to carbon dioxide and energy use.  Respondents appeared to be relatively unfamiliar with such regulatory developments as the ban on CFCs for nonessential uses.  These beliefs must be considered by those designing risk communications or presenting climate-related policies to the public.

Boucher, P. (2013). "Things, Names, Judgments, and the LRS Lens: A Critical Realist Analysis of the Biofuel Controversy in the United Kingdom." Science Communication 35(2): 241-265.	This article describes the LRS lens, a methodology designed to consider technical controversies with reference to a critical realist conceptualization of technology and meaning production. The application of the lens is demonstrated in a qualitative analysis of the biofuel controversy in the United Kingdom. The analysis organizes participants' positions in terms of the technologies they refer to, their names, and their judgments. They organize biofuels' variability in different ways, developing the vocabulary to identify and refer to relevant subgroups. The domination of one approach could have a significant impact on technical development.

Bouder, F. (2018). "Towards a concept of genetic risk tolerance: a risk analysis perspective." Journal of Risk Research 21(2): 190-205.	The starting point of the MindTheRisk project has been to raise socio-political questions about whether lay public's understanding is satisfied about the genetic information they receive, and to what extent regulators do take this aspect on board when they decide to allow or restrict genetic testing or to develop communications about genetic testing. This article draws on the concepts that have emerged among the risk research community to tackle risk tolerance''. It explores the application of those concepts to the sharing and regulating of genetic risk information. We start with a conceptualisation of risk acceptability/tolerability in the genetic context, before turning to concrete hurdles that need to be overcome and questions that need to be answered. Finally, we suggest some direction for policy. The paper is based on an in-depth review supplemented by pilot interviews conducted with the European Medicines Agency, National regulatory agencies, academic and members of a patient organisation, all directly involved in policy.

Bouder, F., et al. (2015). "Transparency in Europe: A Quantitative Study." Risk Analysis 35(7): 1210-1229.	In recent years, European pharmaceutical regulators have increasingly committed to heightening access to raw safety-related data as part of a wave of transparency initiatives (e.g., providing public Internet-mediated access to clinical trials data). Yet, the regulatorswho are under significant pressurehave not yet benefited from a systematic review of this new policy. In seeking to inject much needed evidence, this article explores the effects of new transparency policies designed to promote meaningful communication of risks and benefits to patients. Results of a cross-national European survey with respondents from Great Britain, the Netherlands, Spain, France, Germany, and Sweden (N = 5,648) shed light on how patients and the public are likely to react to the regulators' new transparency policies. The findings demonstrate clear national variations in how European citizens are likely to react and emphasize the need to develop evidence-based, reasoned transparency policies that integrate benefit-risk communication. The authors conclude by providing six specific recommendations, informed by the study, that seek to improve the European transparency model both within the medical field and across health, safety, and environmental policy domains.

Boudet, H. S., et al. (2018). "The Effect of Geographic Proximity to Unconventional Oil and Gas Development on Public Support for Hydraulic Fracturing." Risk Analysis 38(9): 1871-1890.	With the rapid growth of unconventional oil and natural gas development transforming the U.S. economic and physical landscape, social scientists have increasingly explored the spatial dynamics of public support for this issuethat is, whether people closer to unconventional oil and gas development are more supportive or more opposed. While theoretical frameworks like construal-level theory and the Not in My Backyard (or NIMBY) moniker provide insight into these spatial dynamics, case studies in specific locations experiencing energy development reveal substantial variation in community responses. Larger-scale studies exploring the link between proximity and support have been hampered by data quality and availability. We draw on a unique data set that includes geo-coded data from national surveys (nine waves; n=19,098) and high-resolution well location data to explore the relationship between proximity and both familiarity with and support for hydraulic fracturing. We use two different measures of proximityrespondent distance to the nearest well and the density of wells within a certain radius of the respondent's location. We find that both types of proximity to new development are linked to more familiarity with hydraulic fracturing, even after controlling for various individual and contextual factors, but only distance-based proximity is linked to more support for the practice. When significant, these relationships are similar to or exceed the effects of race, income, gender, and age. We discuss the implications of these findings for effective risk communication as well as the importance of incorporating spatial analysis into public opinion research on perceptions of energy development.

Bould, M. (1998). "NASA/Trek: Popular science and sex in America." Public Understanding of Science 7(3): 259-261.
	
Bould, M. (1999). "Enterprise zones: Critical positions on Star Trek." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 57-63.
	
Bould, M. (1999). "Star trek in myth and legend." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 57-63.
	
Bould, M. (1999). "Star Trek and history: Race-ing toward a white future." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 57-63.
	
Bould, M. (2000). "How we became posthuman: Virtual bodies in cybernetics, literature, and informatics." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 464-465.
	
Bould, M. (2000). "Alien zone II: The spaces of science-fiction cinema." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 341-342.
	
Bourdaa, M., et al. (2015). "Does television reflect the evolution of scientific knowledge? The case of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder coverage on French television." Public Understanding of Science 24(2): 200-209.	Biomedical findings mature from uncertain observations to validated facts. Although subsequent studies often refute initial appealing findings, newspapers privilege the latter and often fail to cover refutations. Thus, biomedical knowledge and media reporting may diverge with time. Here we investigated how French television reported on three scientific questions relative to attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) from 1995 to 2010: i) is ADHD mainly genetic in origin, ii) does methylphenidate treatment decrease the risk of academic underachievement, and iii) are brain imaging techniques able to reveal ADHD in individual patients? Although scientific evidence regarding these questions has evolved during these 16 years, we observed that nine out of ten TV programs broadcast between 2007 and 2010 still expressed only opinions against the current scientific consensuses. The failure of TV programs to reflect the evolution of the scientific knowledge might be related to a biased selection of medical experts.

Bourk, M., et al. (2017). "Mediating the Science: Symbolic and Structural Influences on Communicating Climate Change Through New Zealand's Television News." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 821-839.	Climate change presents scientists, politicians, and media producers with a challenge of articulating to diverse stakeholders both the complexity of issues and the urgency of action. Analyses of how climate change is represented and constructed in broadcast media are useful to capture a reflection of contemporary values. We use an analysis of news frames and production values as well as a limited circuit of culture approach to explore climate change communication as both a news product and cultural phenomenon. Our focus is New Zealand, a country which ratified the Kyoto agreement but which is currently noncompliant. Using qualitative framing analysis and in-depth interviews with leading media producers, politicians, and scientists, we examine how climate change is produced, represented, and consumed by New Zealanders via their broadcast media.

Bouse, D. (2002). "Wildlife films public understanding of science." Public Understanding of Science 11(3): 307-307.
	
Bowe, B. J., et al. (2014). "Framing of climate change in newspaper coverage of the East Anglia e-mail scandal." Public Understanding of Science 23(2): 157-169.	In late 2009, a series of e-mails related to climate research were made public following the hacking into a server and the e-mail accounts of researchers at the University of East Anglia Climate Research Unit. According to some skeptics of climate change research, the content of those e-mails suggested data were being manipulated, while climate scientists said their words were taken out of context. The news coverage of this scandal provides an opportunity to consider media framing. This study has two aims: to extend previous research using a cluster analysis technique to discern frames in media texts; and to provide insight into newspaper coverage of the scandal, which is often referred to as Climategate. This study examines the frames present in two British and two American newspapers' coverage of the issue.

Bowers, A. W., et al. (2016). "Climate change communication insights from cooperative Extension professionals in the US Southern states: finding common ground." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(5): 656-670.	Climate change is often avoided in educational programming due to its perceived polarizing nature. Identifying areas of agreement may help educators introduce climate change topics and help audiences begin to listen. As part of a survey of Extension professionals in the southeastern US, respondents shared their thoughts about climate change. Based on methods used by Maibach, Leiserowitz, Roser-Renouf, and Mertz [(2011). Identifying like-minded audiences for global warming public engagement campaigns: An audience segmentation analysis and tool development. PLoS ONE, 6(3), e17571], we categorized respondents using the Six Americas segments. Qualitative data analysis techniques were applied to identify common themes. Five themes emerged as common across most segments: (1) confusion and mistrust abound, (2) educators face barriers to climate change education, (3) economic aspects of climate change are important, (4) we should be good stewards of Earth, and (5) adaptation is an agreeable strategy. By identifying climate change message frames with which people may agree, regardless of how they feel about climate change, educators may be able to better communicate with broader audiences.

Bowers, B. (1999). "Frankenstein's children: Electricity exhibition and experiment in early nineteenth century London." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 260-261.
	
Bowers, T. (2013). "Mountaintop Removal as a Case Study: The Possibilities for Public Advocacy through Virtual Toxic Tours." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(3): 372-390.	This paper argues that geo-spatial technologies (GST) such as Google Earth and Google Maps offer the potential for environmental advocates to generate virtual toxic tours. By analyzing the use of GST by I Love Mountains, a coalition of organizations attempting to stop the practice of mountaintop removal, this paper illustrates how a virtual tour generated through GST such as Google Earth can be a means to generate presence and promote identification between those local residents impacted by the practice and those who inhabit places seemingly distant from the same practice. The study not only acknowledges the limits of virtual tours but also identifies specific qualities not evident in tours of physical environments. Due to the potential virtual tours, this study also seeks to prompt further consideration of the use of GST and their role in contemporary environmental advocacy efforts.

Boyd, A. D. (2017). "Examining Community Perceptions of Energy Systems Development: The Role of Communication and Sense of Place." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(2): 184-204.	An increasing demand for the development and implementation of low carbon energy systems has furthered the need to understand the factors that influence a community's support for or opposition to local energy developments. Carbon dioxide capture and geological storage (CCS) is one such energy system where it is widely acknowledged that public perceptions and acceptance of CCS technologies are critical to their implementation. CCS refers to the capture of carbon dioxide emissions from industrial sources and the long-term storage of these emissions in stable underground reservoirs. This case study examines how place attachment and community networks factored into resident's perceptions of a proposed CCS project that was ultimately canceled due to local opposition. Participants were concerned about preserving shared places, spaces, and interactions that were valued by community members. Results demonstrate the need to ascertain how locally affected populations view CCS or other energy developments, especially with regard to their ideas about community, sense of place (ties to area and local relationships), and how they communicate about those factors. Such factors are important given the initiative to develop low carbon energy systems in rural areas.

Boyd, A. D. and C. G. Jardine (2011). "Did public risk perspectives of mad cow disease reflect media representations and actual outcomes?" Journal of Risk Research 14(5): 615-630.	The first confirmed Canadian case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) was reported to the general public on 20 May 2003 and received considerable media coverage. A random-digit dialled telephone survey of 1207 people in Alberta, Canada, was conducted in spring 2007 to better understand public perspectives on the resulting economic concerns and effects on farming. Comparisons to other risk events and concerns about the overall risk were also examined. Respondents acknowledged BSE to be an economic risk, especially to cattle producers. Health risks were of little concern, especially in comparison to other relevant risk events such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the BSE crisis in Britain. However, the risk of BSE was perceived as more dangerous should a domestically attributed case of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) (the human form of the disease) occur. The social amplification of risk framework (SARF) was extended to demonstrate that the discovery of BSE in Alberta led to neither an amplification nor attenuation of risk. Rather, risk management strategies employed in Alberta led to a mirroring of media representations and public perceptions of the risk. This unusual situation is in part due to the social and cultural context of the discovery of BSE in Alberta, including the history and pride of beef production in Alberta, how the risk was anchored, and a trust in government fostered by the media. This research also demonstrated how the application and interpretation of SARF is dependent on the comparative value used to assess whether amplification or attenuation has occurred.

Boyd, A. D. and T. B. Paveglio (2014). "Front page or "buried" beneath the fold? Media coverage of carbon capture and storage." Public Understanding of Science 23(4): 411-427.	Media can affect public views and opinions on science, policy and risk issues. This is especially true of a controversial emerging technology that is relatively unknown. The study presented here employs a media content analysis of carbon capture and storage (CCS), one potential strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The authors analyzed all mentions of CCS in two leading Canadian national newspapers and two major western regional newspapers from the first article that discussed CCS in 2004 to the end of 2009 (825 articles). An in-depth content analysis was conducted to examine factors relating to risk from CCS, how the technology was portrayed and if coverage was negatively or positively biased. We conclude by discussing the possible impact of media coverage on support or opposition to CCS adoption.

Boyert, L., et al. (2009). "The emergence of a community mapping network: coastal eelgrass mapping in British Columbia." Public Understanding of Science 18(2): 130-148.	The purpose of this paper is to document and theorize the emergence of a network of stewards concerned about the conservation of a marine habitat called eelgrass along the coastline of British Columbia, Canada. Today, by engaging as professional biologists, government employees, and volunteers using various mapping, outreach, and communication tools, these stewards generate knowledge on the geographic location and health of eelgrass habitat, how to educate the public, how to coordinate volunteers, and how to approach local governments-with the ultimate goal of convincing others that eelgrass is worth protecting. Our two-year ethnographic study began in the second year of a project that was designed to train twenty community coordinators how to map and monitor eelgrass habitat. The coordinators were faced with complex social, cultural, political, historical, and material landscapes-which made us wonder about how it was possible for the network to hold together while extending its reach. We provide evidence to support the claim that the network became more stable and was extended by particular performances. These performances emerged from recognition and resolution of resistances, in which the network was both resource for and object of its activity. In the process, (a) knowledge produced is made to move and do something, (b) coordinators and scientists involved acted as knowledge brokers between various communities, and (c) communication between coordinators was enabled and maintained.

Boyle, A. (2006). "Theaters of time and space: American planetaria, 1930-1970." Public Understanding of Science 15(2): 254-254.
	
Bozkurt, O. and O. N. Kaya (2008). "Teaching about ozone layer depletion in Turkey: pedagogical content knowledge of science teachers." Public Understanding of Science 17(2): 261-276.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the pedagogical content knowledge of Prospective Science Teachers (PSTs) on the topic of "ozone layer depletion." In order to explore PSTs' subject matter knowledge on ozone layer depletion, they were given a form of multiple-choice test where they needed to write the reasons behind their answers. This test was completed by 140 PSTs in their final year at the College of Education. Individual interviews were carried out with 42 randomly selected PSTs to determine their pedagogical knowledge about ozone layer depletion. Data were obtained from the study which indicate that the PSTs did not have adequate subject matter and pedagogical knowledge to teach the topic of ozone layer depletion to middle school students. It was also evident that the PSTs held various misconceptions related to ozone layer depletion. PSTs' inadequate pedagogical knowledge was found in the areas of the curriculum, learning difficulties of students, and instructional strategies and activities. This study provides some pedagogical implications for the training of science teachers.

Bradburne, J. M. (1998). "Dinosaurs and white elephants: the science center in the twenty-first century." Public Understanding of Science 7(3): 237-253.	This paper argues that science centers are expensive to create as capital projects, expensive to maintain with professional staff, and, given the high costs of exhibit development, expensive to change. Lacking a fixed collection of unique artifacts with which to attract visitors, the science center is at risk when it cannot change quickly enough to meet the demands of its users. In the past, temporary exhibitions have been used as a means of creating more frequent change. Now, however, given the exponential increase of the availability of new electronic media, coupled with their massive interconnection via the Internet, informal learning can be had at home and in other sites, rendering the science center unwieldy, expensive. irrelevant, and obsolete. Threats to the science center cannot be lightly shrugged off, and a real transformation of the institution is required. The paper concludes that the science center, as an institution and as a building project, is doomed to extinction as a consequence of two factors-ecology and economy. It argues for the need to develop a new kind of institution of informal learning in its place.

Bradburne, J. M. (2003). "The science museum: Spread of the communication model and new conceptualization of the museological field." Public Understanding of Science 12(2): 211-212.
	
Bradbury, J. A. (1994). "Risk Communication in Environmental Restoration Programs." Risk Analysis 14(3): 357-363.	The author advocates adoption of a convergence model in place of the traditional source-receiver model of communication for communicating with members of the public who have a stake in remediation of a nearby site. The source-receiver model conceives of communication as the transmission of a message from a risk management agency (sender) to a target audience of the public (receivers). The underlying theme is that the sender intends to change the perception of the receiver of either the issue or the sender of information. The author draws on her experience at a Department of Energy (DoE) site undergoing remediation to illustrate why the convergence model is more appropriate in the context of cleanup. This alternative model focuses on the Latin derivation of communication as sharing or making common to many (i.e., as involving a relationship between participants who engage in a process of communication). The focus appears to be consistent with recently issued DoE policy that calls for involving the public in identifying issues and problems and in formulating and evaluating decision alternatives in cleanup. By emphasizing context, process, and participants, as opposed to senders and receivers, the model identifies key issues to address in facilitating consensus concerning the risks of cleanup. Similarities between the institutional context of DoE and Department of Defense (DoD) suggest that a convergence model may also prove to be an appropriate conceptual foundation for risk communication at contaminated DoD sites.

Brady, M. J. (2011). "Mediating Indigenous Voice in the Museum: Narratives of Place, Land, and Environment in New Exhibition Practice." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(2): 202-220.	As popular Indigenous museums have proliferated globally, the question of ovoiceo has become as important as the question of otruth.o This article explores the discourse of Indigenous voice and describes its intersections with media and the representation of Indigenous place in new exhibition practice. It suggests that while the discourse of Indigenous voice appears in many new exhibits, it varies in each particular site, leading to different possibilities for articulating Indigenous connections with land and environment. This article focuses on the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of the American Indian (NMAI) in Washington D.C., the Canadian Museum of Civilization's First Peoples Hall, and the Chicago Field Museum's Ancient Americas exhibit, three popular, media-rich sites emerging in the twenty-first century. While the NMAI and First Peoples Hall center on conveying a sense of contemporary Indigenous voice, Ancient Americas focuses on third person, scientific accounts of the past. The exhibit emphasizes expert interpretations of Indigenous movement across land over time rather than first person, Indigenous narratives tracing connections with place. Therefore, Ancient Americas produces less narrative possibilities for addressing particular Indigenous concerns over contemporary environmental disruptions. This article explores the resulting tensions and suggests that variations in orientation toward Indigenous voice can shape opportunities for engaging different conceptions of land and environment.

Brander, R. W., et al. (2014). ""Dye in the Water": A Visual Approach to Communicating the Rip Current Hazard." Science Communication 36(6): 802-810.	Many beaches are characterized by rip currentsstrong, narrow flows that can quickly carry bathers offshore, often against their will. However, despite long-standing efforts at community education and awareness strategies, people continue to drown in rip currents at high rates. Here we describe a simple, but powerful visual-based risk communication approach involving imagery associated with releases of colored dye into rip currents that has been used as an outreach tool with success in Australia. This approach has the potential to transcend limitations of traditional education approaches and bring the rip current hazard to life for a largely unaware public.

Brandt, U. S. (2014). "The implication of extreme events on policy responses." Journal of Risk Research 17(2): 221-240.	This paper considers a situation where a real risk exists that requires precautions, but the public mostly experiences the risk through infrequently occurring extreme events; this type of risk includes risk from climate change, international terrorism, natural calamities or financial crises. The analysis shows that if a risk-mitigating policy is based on the perceived riskiness of that risk, it will call for disproportionate responses (compared to what the real' risk suggests) by either under- or over-investing in risk-reducing policies, depending on the characteristics of the problem, implying significant volatility in the policy response. This type of response provides at least three challenges to society: policy cycles where implementation lags behind the actual change in risk, a lock-in to inefficient technologies and additional costs. Finally, this paper addresses the question of how the above-mentioned challenges can be managed through proper risk communication.

Branston, G. (2016). "Apocalyptic imaginings." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 807-810.
	
Braun, K. and S. Konninger (2018). "From experiments to ecosystems? Reviewing public participation, scientific governance and the systemic turn." Public Understanding of Science 27(6): 674-689.	The article discusses a recent systemic turn in public participation in science studies. It reviews the main lines of criticism brought forward in science, technology and society towards public participation in science discourse and argues that much of it refers to the field's preoccupation with isolated, stage-managed minipublics. It then discusses a series of efforts in science, technology and society, and other fields to study public participation in a more systemic or holistic perspective. The article advances the argument that there are different ways of conceptualizing such a perspective, not all of which are well equipped to account for contestation, conflict and power. We distinguish between an aggregative approach, deliberative systems theory, an eco-systemic and a decentred governance approach and argue that the latter allows us to study the complexities of public participation without relying on a normative concept of system and account for power relations that may structure the field of public participation.

Braun, K. and S. Schultz (2010). "" ... a certain amount of engineering involved": Constructing the public in participatory governance arrangements." Public Understanding of Science 19(4): 403-419.	This paper argues that it is time for public understanding of science to develop a critical inventory of the forms, formats and methods of public participation and their respective implications and ambiguities. It highlights the need for analysing not only the limitations and deficiencies of participatory arrangements but also their constructive dimension, in particular the construction of the subject of participation. Looking into participatory governance arrangements in the issue area of genetic testing in Germany and the UK the paper presents a typology of formats according to the way the respective public is constructed and identifies four major constructions of publics: the general public, the pure public, the affected public and the partisan public. Each of these enables certain speaking positions while foreclosing others. The study shows that the main purposes of participatory arrangements in this issue area are knowledge production and education rather than political deliberation and decision-making.

Bray, D. and H. von Storch (2009). ""Prediction" or "Projection"? The Nomenclature of Climate Science." Science Communication 30(4): 534-543.	A survey among climate scientists is used to examine the terminology concerning two key concepts in climate science, namely, predictions and projections, as used among climate scientists. The survey data suggest that the terminology used by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is not adopted, or only loosely adopted, by a significant minority of scientists. Contrary to established guidelines, approximately 29% of the respondents associate probable developments with projections, and approximately 20% of the respondents associate possible developments with predictions.

Breakwell, G. M. and T. Robertson (2001). "The gender gap in science attitudes, parental and peer influences: changes between 1987-88 and 1997-98." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 71-82.	This study examines whether differences in attitudes towards science between males and females (aged 11-14 years) in the United Kingdom have changed over a 10-year period. The study replicated in 1997-98 a questionnaire survey first conducted in 1987-88, drawing samples from the same schools used in the initial research. Data from the two surveys were compared. Both surveys found that females, in comparison to males, liked science at school less, reported that they performed worse in science, participated in fewer extracurricular scientific activities, and had more negative attitudes to science in general. There was a significant main effect for year of survey upon liking of science at school, and performance in science at school, with a marked decline in both over the period. However, there was no significant change in attitudes to science in general. There were no significant interaction effects between gender and survey year, suggesting no changes in gender differentials across the 10-year period. There were, however, changes over time in the factors predicting liking of and attitudes towards science. Mothers' perceived support for science is particularly important in predicting attitudes and involvement of children. In 1997-98, mothers were perceived to be significantly more supportive of science.

Brechman, J., et al. (2009). "Lost in Translation? A Comparison of Cancer-Genetics Reporting in the Press Release and Its Subsequent Coverage in the Press." Science Communication 30(4): 453-474.	Understanding how genetic science is communicated to the lay public is of great import. To address this issue, this study examines the presentation of genetic research relating to cancer outcomes and behaviors (i.e., prostate cancer, breast cancer, colon cancer, smoking and obesity) in both the press release (n = 23) and its subsequent news coverage (n = 71). Data suggest that genetic discoveries are presented in a biologically deterministic and simplified manner 67.5% of the time. The introduction of deterministic language is attributed equally to both press releases and news coverage. Also, there are substantive differences between content introduced in the press release and content presented in subsequent press coverage; in fact, when two sources report on the same scientific discovery, the information is inconsistent more than 40% of the time. These findings suggest that the intermediary press release may serve as a source of distortion in the dissemination of science to the lay public.

Breslin, C., et al. (2001). "Application of the theory of planned behavior to predict research dissemination - A prospective study among addiction counselors." Science Communication 22(4): 423-437.	Constructs of the theory of planned behavior (TPB) were used to predict dissemination of an addiction program among ninety-eight counselors. As part of a training workshop, ninety-eight participants completed a questionnaire that assessed TPB constructs (e.g, attitudes toward the program). Ar baseline, attitude and social norms predicted 56 percent of the variance in intention to adopt the program. At the six-month follow-up (n = 86), intention to adopt and perceived control predicted 19 percent of the variance in level of actual program use. The results lend support to the use of TPB and to the idea that research dissemination should attempt to influence attitude formation and social norms initially. and later in the adoption process it should focus on enhancing perceived control to increase motivation to adopt.

Brewer, N. T., et al. (2006). "Why people believe they were exposed to biological or chemical warfare: A survey of gulf war veterans." Risk Analysis 26(2): 337-345.	The study sought to understand better how people come to believe they have been exposed to biological and chemical warfare. We conducted telephone interviews with 1,009 American veterans (65% response rate) deployed and not deployed to the Gulf War, a conflict during which there were credible threats that such warfare could be used. Only 6% of non-Gulf War veterans reported exposure to biological or chemical warfare, but most of Gulf War veterans reported exposure (64%). The majority of these were unsure whether the exposure was chemical or biological in nature. The most commonly reported exposure indicators were receiving an alert from the military and having physical symptoms. Veterans who were certain of the type of exposure (biological or chemical) were more likely to recall having been told by the military and to recall physical symptoms. Future communications with soldiers and the general public about biological and chemical warfare may need to emphasize the uncertain nature of such risk information. Evaluations of exposure diagnostic technologies should take into account the problem of people initially believing, but not later discounting, false positive results.

Brewer, P. R. (2013). "The Trappings of Science: Media Messages, Scientific Authority, and Beliefs About Paranormal Investigators." Science Communication 35(3): 311-333.	This study examines the influence of media messages about paranormal investigators on perceptions of how scientific and credible such investigators are, as well as on beliefs about paranormal phenomena such as ghosts and haunted houses. The analyses use experimental data to test the effects of three different versions of a news story about paranormal investigators: one version presenting them with "trappings of science" such as technology and jargon, another presenting them in terms of traditional supernaturalism, and yet another debunking them as unscientific. The analyses also test whether various forms of media use predict perceptions regarding paranormal investigators and phenomena.

Brewer, P. R. and B. L. Ley (2010). "Media Use and Public Perceptions of DNA Evidence." Science Communication 32(1): 93-117.	This study uses survey data to examine how various forms of media use are related to public perceptions of DNA evidence, including self-perceived understanding of DNA, perceptions of DNA evidence as reliable, weight attached to DNA evidence (or the absence thereof) in jury decision making, and support for a national DNA databank. The hypotheses build on cultivation theory, priming theory, and research regarding the "CSI effect:" The findings indicate that overall television viewing, crime television viewing, and news media use predict perceptions of DNA evidence. Moreover, a question-order experiment produced evidence that priming thoughts about media can influence such perceptions.

Brewer, P. R. and B. L. Ley (2011). "Multiple Exposures: Scientific Controversy, the Media, and Public Responses to Bisphenol A." Science Communication 33(1): 76-97.	The controversy surrounding the potential health effects of bisphenol A (BPA) has recently spread from the scientific arena to mass mediated public debate. This study presents a theoretical account of low-information rationality to explain why media use (including newspaper use and online health information use) and confidence in key actors (including business, the Food and Drug Administration, and scientists) may predict public responses to BPA. It then analyzes survey data to examine how these factors are related to familiarity with BPA, concern about it, support for a ban on it, and behaviors to reduce exposure to it.

Brewer, P. R. and B. L. Ley (2013). "Whose Science Do You Believe? Explaining Trust in Sources of Scientific Information About the Environment." Science Communication 35(1): 115-137.	Given that trust plays a key role in the communication of scientific information about the environment to the public, this study examines what explains trust in specific sources of such information. In doing so, it analyzes whether-and, if so, how-political ideology, support for environmental regulation, religiosity, trust in people, and trust in government predict trust in scientists, the Environmental Protection Agency, environmental organizations, news media, and science media. It also examines whether trust in scientists is associated with trust in the other sources in light of how each of the latter draws on the credibility of the former.

Brewer, P. R. and B. L. Ley (2014). "Contested evidence: Exposure to competing scientific claims and public support for banning bisphenol A." Public Understanding of Science 23(4): 395-410.	The public controversy surrounding bisphenol A (BPA) revolves around competing claims about what scientific evidence shows regarding the effects of the chemical on human health. This study uses an experiment embedded within a public opinion survey to test the effects of exposure to such claims on public support for banning the use of BPA in products. Exposure to the claim that "there is not enough scientific evidence that BPA harms human health" reduced support, whereas exposure to the claim that there "is enough scientific evidence" failed to increase support. No effect emerged among those simultaneously exposed to both claims. The "not enough evidence" claim influenced less educated respondents and women but not college-educated respondents or men. Aspects of the underlying structure of opinion also differed depending on which claim(s) respondents received. The results illuminate how members of the public respond to competing scientific claims regarding controversial issues.

Brewer, P. R. and J. McKnight (2015). "Climate as Comedy: The Effects of Satirical Television News on Climate Change Perceptions." Science Communication 37(5): 635-657.	Two satirical television news programs, The Daily Show and The Colbert Report, cover climate change in ways that affirm the existence of global warming. This study uses data from an experiment (N = 424) to test whether exposure to these programs' coverage can influence viewers' certainty that global warming is happening. It also examines whether viewers' political beliefs predict their interpretations of the programs' messages about climate change, whether such interpretations are related to viewers' climate change perceptions, and whether the effects of the programs vary depending on viewers' political beliefs.

Brewer, P. R., et al. (2014). "Chemical Controversy: Canadian and US News Coverage of the Scientific Debate about Bisphenol A." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(1): 21-38.	This study analyzes how newspapers covered the scientific controversy surrounding the health effects of exposure to Bisphenol A (BPA). Specifically, it examines whether framing, sources of scientific information, and balancing of competing sides in the debate differed across national political contexts and journalistic approaches. In regard to the former, it compares coverage in Canada (represented by the Globe and Mail), which had banned BPA in baby bottles and cups, to coverage in the United States (represented by the New York Times and Washington Post), which had not. In regard to the latter, it compares coverage in two US newspapers that took a conventional journalistic approach (the New York Times and Washington Post) to coverage in a US newspaper that launched an investigative series regarding BPA (the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel). The study concludes by considering what the findings suggest about how social forces shape coverage of scientific controversies involving environmental issues.

Brier, S. (2006). "Ficta: remixing generalized symbolic media in the new scientific novel." Public Understanding of Science 15(2): 153-174.	This article analyzes the use of fictionalization in popular science communication as an answer to changing demands for science communication in the mass media. It concludes that a new genre-Ficta-arose especially with the work of Michael Crichton. The Ficta novel is a fiction novel based on a real scientific problem, often one that can have or already does have serious consequences for our culture or civilization. The Ficta novel is a new way for the entertainment society to reflect on scientific theories, their consequences and meaning. Jurassic Park is chosen for an in-depth analysis in order to bring out the essential characteristics of Ficta, showing how its reflections on complexity, fractals, self-reference, non-linearity and unpredictability in science transform our view of scientific knowledge as being the tool for deterministic control into a second order reflection on complexity and the limits of control and predictability.

Briggs, D. and R. Stern (2007). "Risk response to environmental hazards to health - Towards an ecological approach." Journal of Risk Research 10(5): 593-622.	Response to risks can be seen as an ecological process, involving a community of actors whose perceptions and actions play off each other, and whose responses help to determine the way in which risk events play out. Risk governance thus needs to take account of how the many different stakeholders caught up in the event respond to the perceived risks. The NATO-MoD funded MERREA project was aimed at exploring these processes of risk response through a series of case studies, as a basis for developing more effective risk governance strategies. This paper describes the study and summarises results from a cross-cutting analysis of the case studies. It highlights five key issues: the inadequate identification and characterisation of stakeholders that occurs in many risk situations; the importance of given and self-adopted roles in determining stakeholders' understanding and expectations of risk; the importance of recognising both formal and informal channels of risk communication in any risk situation, requiring the establishment of effective and open channels of communication well in advance of any event; the need to recognise, admit and communicate uncertainty in risk situations if trust is to be maintained; and the importance of establishing lead organisations for risk governance who carry the trust of all the stakeholders concerned.

Briggs, P. (2000). "The establishment of science in America: 150 years of the the American Association for the advancement of science." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 337-338.
	
Broad, G. M. (2016). "Animal Production, Ag-gag Laws, and the Social Production of Ignorance: Exploring the Role of Storytelling." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(1): 43-61.	In recent years, a number of so-called farm protection or ag-gag laws have been proposed and passed in state legislatures across the USA. These laws generally ban the undercover photographing or videotaping of industrial animal agricultural production and processing facilities. Proponents of the legislation suggest that such bills protect local farm economies and prevent misinformation campaigns by animal rights activists. Diverse sets of critics have argued against the bills, suggesting that they prevent whistleblowers from exposing animal cruelty and stand in the way of the public's right to know. This paper analyzes the debate by blending theory from science and technology studies regarding the social production of knowledge and ignorance with communication theory that explores the power of storytelling in shaping public understandings of social life. It investigates the stories told by three oppositional stakeholder groupsmembers of industrial animal agribusiness who defend the legislation, small-scale producers and consumers who believe the legislation prevents productive transparency, as well as animal advocacy and first amendment interests who believe the legislation masks fundamental flaws in the contemporary animal agricultural system. The paper provides insight into how competing mediated narratives frame ideological battles over the present and future of animal production processes. It demonstrates how fundamental and often opposing value systems construct what we consider knowledge and non-knowledge in the context of our contemporary risk society and in the digital media age.

Broadway, S. C. (2008). "DNA: How the biotech revolution is changing the way we fight disease." Science Communication 29(3): 399-401.
	
Brodesco, A. (2018). "Nobel laureates in fiction: From La fin du monde to The Big Bang Theory." Public Understanding of Science 27(4): 458-470.	The history of the Nobel Prize, since its establishment, interlaces with the history of the public image of science. The aim of this article is to illustrate cinematic scientists, portrayed precisely in their moment of maximum glory. The films and television shows upon which the study is based compose a corpus of 189 media texts. The article identifies three main areas that concern the relation between the Nobel Prize and its audiovisual representations: biopics of real Nobel laureates, the presence of real or fictional Nobel laureates in the film or the show plot, and films and TV series that depict the Nobel ceremony. The article then focuses on four texts that deserve a detailed examination: La fin du monde, The Prize, The Simpsons and The Big Bang Theory. The conclusion compares the representation of the Nobel scientist with general changes in the image of the scientist conveyed by cinema and television.

Broks, P. (2018). "From Madman to Crime Fighter: The Scientist in Western Culture." Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 1009-1010.
	
Brondi, S., et al. (2016). "Italian parliamentary debates on energy sustainability: How argumentative "short-circuits' affect public engagement." Public Understanding of Science 25(6): 737-753.	Public engagement is considered a crucial process in the transition towards sustainable energy systems. However, less space has been devoted to understand how policy makers and stakeholders view citizens and their relationship with energy issues. Nonetheless, together with technological advancements, policies and political debates on energy affect public engagement as well as individual practices. This article aims at tackling this issue by exploring how policy makers and stakeholders have socially constructed sustainable energy in Italian parliamentary debates and consultations during recent years (2009-2012). Results show that societal discourses on sustainable energy are oriented in a manner that precludes public engagement. The political debate is characterised by argumentative short-circuits' that constrain individual and community actions to the acceptance or the refusal of top-down decisions and that leave little room for community empowerment and bottom-up innovation.

Brookfield, K., et al. (2016). "Informal Science Learning for Older Adults." Science Communication 38(5): 655-665.	Recent years have seen rapid growth in informal science learning. Evidence suggests that participation in such learning delivers benefits, including improved performance in formal science learning and enhanced interest in science. To date, such learning has typically attended to children and families, with little attention paid to older populations. Older adults are, however, keen knowledge consumers with their participation in learning associated with improved well-being and better health. This commentary presents our experience of developing and delivering an informal science learning event for older adults. Its successes, challenges, and audience reception are considered with a small number of recommendations provided.

Broome, T. H. (1996). "The heroic mentorship." Science Communication 17(4): 398-429.	Is mentoring toxic to scientific research? If so does moral education transmit the toxin? By pursuing these questions, this article joins a host of scholarly inquiries into scientific misconduct. If moral education transmits the toxin, is character development its antidote? The pursuit of this question makes this article unique among such inquiries, The method of pursuit is interdisciplinary, of the type generally known as the science-technology-society (STS) approach. The author finds immaturity to be the toxin and a DuBoisian implementation of the mythological hero's journey in the university to be its antidote. The function of the mentor in this journey is modeled after Joseph Campbell's mythological hero helper, the hero being the mentor's protege.

Brossard, D. (2009). "Media, scientific journals and science communication: examining the construction of scientific controversies." Public Understanding of Science 18(3): 258-274.	This paper analyzes the role of the media in the construction of the "water with memory" controversy. It demonstrates that the universality of the canons of the scientific enterprise transcends the scientific publications' domain and can also influence mass media coverage of scientific controversies. Mass media can play a crucial role in scientific controversies. This role goes way beyond acting as secondary sources of news created in the scientific arena. The case study illustrates how media in times of crisis can assume the rhetorical role traditionally imparted to scientific journals, the latter adopting a passionate and sensationalistic approach usually attributed to mass media. The case study demonstrates that mass media's role in science communication cannot be studied in isolation, and that scientific journals and mass media work in interaction in the construction of scientific controversies.

Brossard, D., et al. (2009). "Religiosity as a perceptual filter: examining processes of opinion formation about nanotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 18(5): 546-558.	Using national survey data, we examine how people use science media, factual knowledge related to nanotechnology, and predispositions such as strength of religious beliefs, to form attitudes about nanotechnology. We show that strength of religious beliefs is negatively related to support for funding of the technology. Our findings also confirm that science media use plays an important role in shaping positive attitudes toward the technology. Overall public support for funding nanotechnology is not directly related to levels of knowledge among the electorate, but on risk and benefits perceptions and the use of media frames. However, knowledge about the technology does tend to be interpreted through the lens of religious beliefs and therefore indirectly affect levels of support..

Brossard, D. and J. Shanahan (2006). "Do they know what they read? Building a scientific literacy measurement instrument based on science media coverage." Science Communication 28(1): 47-63.	The authors tested a novel approach to the conceptualization and measurement of a dimension of scientific literacy, the understanding of scientific and technical terms. Through an analysis of the media's use of scientific and technical terms randomly selected from a scientific dictionary, the authors identified the thirty-one terms most often used in the media. The authors argue that these terms represent what an individual is expected to know within the bounds of normal civic discourse. The measure that was developed therefore represents a conceptualization of a "civically literate" scientific vocabulary that avoids the possible biases that could be associated with a selection of terms based solely on experts' views. Scientific literacy results obtained through the use of the instrument at the pilot-test level are discussed and contrasted with those obtained when using the National Science Foundation's scale, which is the most widely cited public scientific literacy measurement instrument based on a more conventional approach to scientific literacy.

Broto, V. C. (2012). "Environmental conflicts, research projects and the generation of collective expectations: A case study of a land regeneration project in Tuzla, Bosnia and Herzegovina." Public Understanding of Science 21(4): 432-446.	Locally based research projects may generate multiple and competing expectations from local actors, particularly when they deal with local issues that are perceived as affecting the local quality of life, such as land regeneration. The sociology of expectations provides an entry point through which the expectations of research projects in the context of an environmental conflict can be investigated. This article analyzes a case study of a project (RECOAL) whose remit was to develop regeneration solutions for coal ash disposal sites in the western Balkans. The sociology of expectations is applied here to explain the linkage between the emergence of political discourses and collective expectations. The analysis suggests that the emergence of collective future orientations of locally based research projects needs to be understood with reference to the specific political positions from which such orientations are expressed. While expectations may shape the political debate, the political debate is also generative of such expectations.

Browder, J. (2007). "Why conservation is failing and how it can regain ground." Science Communication 29(1): 131-134.
	
Brown, C. P., et al. (2004). "Report: Helping researchers make the case for science." Science Communication 25(3): 294-303.	Research!America, the largest not-for-profit alliance of groups and individuals in the United States dedicated to public outreach about research, conducts a number of programs for researchers as part of its commitment to step up the frequency and effectiveness of communication about science to elected officials, the media, and the public. This report describes these programs, emphasizing how they help scientists promote an open dialogue with journalists about research and its benefits. Data from surveys commissioned by Research!America and Sigma Xi, an international scientific honorary society, are incorporated. Scientists' accountability and accessibility to the public whose interests they serve are also discussed, as are techniques for becoming effective advocates for increased funding in medical and health research.

Brown, R. B. (1994). "Knowledge and Knowing - a Feminist Perspective." Science Communication 16(2): 152-165.	This article describes a number of classifications of knowledge present in the sociological literature about knowledge. The second section is concerned with a discussion about knowing about knowledge; the third section gives some consideration to the knowledge industry; and the article concludes with a survey of aspects of the utilization of knowledge by organizations and managers. Throughout, examples of views of knowledge are drawn from an earlier study of business school academics.

Brown, R. B. and R. Herring (1996). "The need to eat - The psychological and philosophical components of bounded rationality." Science Communication 18(2): 116-130.	This article examines the decision making preceding a particular event-the 50th anniversary dinner-dance held for employees of a British chemical firm-and the factors influencing the choice of activity and venue Through the analysis of influences on the decision process, the article seeks to demonstrate that although the process fell generally into Simon's bounded rationality model of satisfying behavior other psychological and philosophical issues were also important and should be considered in other more general decision-making processes. These psychological and philosophical issues are discussed and a modified model is put forward.

Brown, T., et al. (2011). "The local impact of global climate change: reporting on landscape transformation and threatened identity in the English regional newspaper press." Public Understanding of Science 20(5): 658-673.	This paper contributes to extant understandings of media representations of climate change by examining the role of the English regional newspaper press in the transformation and dissemination of climate change discourse. Unlike previous accounts, this paper contends that such newspapers shape public understandings of climate change in ways that have yet to be adequately charted. With this in mind, this paper examines the ways in which global climate change is translated into a locally relevant phenomenon. That is, it focuses on its "domestication." Although we acknowledge that there are a number of ways in which this process occurs, specific attention is drawn to stories that highlight the destruction of local landscape features, the transformation of important habitats, and the arrival of "alien" species. The broader significance of such stories is considered in relation to long-standing debates concerning the importance of landscape to notions of national and regional identity.

Bruggemann, M. and S. Engesser (2014). "Between Consensus and Denial: Climate Journalists as Interpretive Community." Science Communication 36(4): 399-427.	This study focuses on climate journalists as key mediators between science and the public sphere. It surveys journalists from five countries and five types of leading news outlets. Despite their different contexts, journalists form an interpretive community sharing the scientific consensus on anthropogenic climate change and agreeing on how to handle climate change skeptics. This consensus is particularly strong among a core of prolific writers while climate change skepticism persists among a periphery of occasional writers. The journalists' attitudes toward climate change are connected to their usage of sources, indicating that interpretive communities include journalists and scientists.

Brulle, R. J. (2010). "From Environmental Campaigns to Advancing the Public Dialog: Environmental Communication for Civic Engagement." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(1): 82-98.	This essay examines the claims of environmental identity campaigns regarding the issue of climate change. Identity campaigns are based on the idea that more effective environmental messages developed through the application of cognitive science by professional communications experts can favorably influence public opinion, and thus support legislative action to remedy this issue. Based on a review of the sociological and psychological literature regarding social change and mobilization, I argue that while this approach may offer short term advantages, it is most likely incapable of developing the large scale mobilization necessary to enact the massive social and economic changes necessary to address global warming. Specifically, theoretical and empirical research on the role of the public sphere, civil society and social movements shows that democratic civic engagement is core to successful social change efforts. However, identity campaigns focus on a communications process that centers on elite led one way communications, which falls to allow for any form of civic engagement and public dialogue. This undermines the creation of a democratic process of change and reinforces the professionalization of political discourse, leading to a weakening of the mobilization capacity over this issue of global warming. The essay concludes with the outlines of an environmental communication process that aims at enhancing civic engagement and democratic decision making.

Brunet, S. and P. Houbaert (2007). "Involving stakeholders: The Belgian Fowl Pest Crisis." Journal of Risk Research 10(5): 643-660.	This paper presents results of a study of risk perceptions and risk communication issues arising from the "Fowl Pest Crisis'' in Belgium. During the crisis, various unanticipated groups emerged as influential stakeholders - such as pigeon fancier associations, zoos or collectors of exotic birds. These stakeholders were not used to communicating with the public authorities responsible for the food chain and, as a result, resorted to informal and political contacts in order to be heard; nor were the authorities quickly able to establish a valid understanding of these stakeholders during the crisis. Based on this evidence, we suggest that methods are needed to gather opinions and worldviews of homogeneous groups of actors in advance of any crisis. These not only give the opportunity to learn more about the stakeholders' views but also help to build confidence with public authorities.

Brunner, E. A. (2018). "Contemporary Environmental Art in China: Portraying Progress, Politics, and Ecosystems." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(3): 402-413.	Art has long been an important force in environmental movements. In China, environmental art is a fast-growing sector of the art scene. This new area of emphasis is expanding the function of art and aiding in China's environmental movement by challenging both imported Western practices and Maoist era philosophy, thereby opening up new ways of considering the relationship between human progress, political systems, economic practices, and their repercussions on existing ecosystems. I turn to artist Xu Xiaoyan's paintings to explore how the notion of progress can be challenged through art. I use Deleuze and Guattari's theory of deterritorialization and reterritorialization to map how Xu's art offers viewers space to think outside dominant paradigms, creates the potential for changes in human consciousness, considers the environment as a composition of relationships and interactions, and provokes discussion concerning the impact of linear notions of time on human conceptions of nature.

Bryant, C. (2000). "Science, myth or magic." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 465-466.
	
Bubeck, P., et al. (2018). "Insights into Flood-Coping Appraisals of Protection Motivation Theory: Empirical Evidence from Germany and France." Risk Analysis 38(6): 1239-1257.	Protection motivation theory (PMT) has become a popular theory to explain the risk-reducing behavior of residents against natural hazards. PMT captures the two main cognitive processes that individuals undergo when faced with a threat, namely, threat appraisal and coping appraisal. The latter describes the evaluation of possible response measures that may reduce or avert the perceived threat. Although the coping appraisal component of PMT was found to be a better predictor of protective intentions and behavior, little is known about the factors that influence individuals' coping appraisals of natural hazards. More insight into flood-coping appraisals of PMT, therefore, are needed to better understand the decision-making process of individuals and to develop effective risk communication strategies. This study presents the results of two surveys among more than 1,600 flood-prone households in Germany and France. Five hypotheses were tested using multivariate statistics regarding factors related to flood-coping appraisals, which were derived from the PMT framework, related literature, and the literature on social vulnerability. We found that socioeconomic characteristics alone are not sufficient to explain flood-coping appraisals. Particularly, observational learning from the social environment, such as friends and neighbors, is positively related to flood-coping appraisals. This suggests that social norms and networks play an important role in flood-preparedness decisions. Providing risk and coping information can also have a positive effect. Given the strong positive influence of the social environment on flood-coping appraisals, future research should investigate how risk communication can be enhanced by making use of the observed social norms and network effects.

Bucchi, M. (1998). "The future of science has begun. The communication of science to the public: Science and the media. Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 349-350.
	
Bucchi, M. (1999). "Between knowledge and decision, scientific expertise." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 258-259.
	
Bucchi, M. (2013). "Style in science communication." Public Understanding of Science 22(8): 904-915.	There is little doubt that during the past few decades science communication efforts aimed at non-expert audiences have increased in quantity and intensity on a global scale. Public engagement and outreach activities have now become a routine - when not a prominent - feature for several research institutions in Europe. However, it would be difficult for both scholars and those involved in science communication to agree on the impact of these activities, on the long-term implications of the science communication movement' and on the indicators we should develop and employ in order to assess impact. The paper argues that quality is a relevant issue and challenge for contemporary science communication. Style is relevant to addressing that challenge, insofar as it relates to discussions about how to strengthen the quality of science communication, suggesting a different perspective other than the traditional normative/prescriptive framework. The notion of style also fruitfully connects the debate on science communication with a rich tradition of studies in the history and sociology of science.

Bucchi, M. (2016). "Untitled." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 264-268.
	
Bucchi, M. (2017). "Credibility, expertise and the challenges of science communication 2.0." Public Understanding of Science 26(8): 890-893.
	
Bucchi, M. (2018). ""The winner takes it all?' Nobel laureates and the public image of science." Public Understanding of Science 27(4): 390-396.
	
Bucchi, M. and R. G. Mazzolini (2003). "Big science, little news: science coverage in the Italian daily press, 1946-1997." Public Understanding of Science 12(1): 7-24.	This article reports on a content analysis of science coverage by the leading Italian newspaper, Il Corriere della Sera, over a period of fifty years. Results show an expansion of such coverage over time, although it was increasingly "institutionalized" in new sections devoted to science and medicine. The typical science story can be described as dealing with biomedical issues, referring to a geographical context outside Italy, relying on uncontested scientific expertise and presenting the consequences of science activity in a positive fashion.
However, deeper analysis suggests the presence of a marked dualism between two distinct journalistic genres: (1) "science-popularization," which is characteristic of special sections, overwhelmingly dominated by biomedical topics, depicting science as straightforward, consensual, and bringing improvement to people's lives; and (2) "science as news," dealing more frequently with other fields such as the physical sciences, paying closer attention to controversy and to the harmful consequences of scientific enterprise. A comparison with similar studies in other countries is also presented.

Bucchi, M. and B. Saracino (2016). ""Visual Science Literacy": Images and Public Understanding of Science in the Digital Age." Science Communication 38(6): 812-819.	Since its very beginning, modern science has put images at the center of its communicative processes: drawings, diagrams, and schemes, and later photographs, satellite images, and film. In the age of digital communication, specialists and publics live constantly immersed in a visually dense environment, particularly when it comes to science and technology content. Do we have the competence to decipher all these images, often complex and elaborate? If the so-called science literacy has become a standard dimension of public understanding of science at the international level, much less studied so far is visual science literacy. We tested empirical indicators of visual science literacy in the context of three surveys (2014, 2015, and 2016) of public perception in Italy on a representative sample of the population. The results show that respondents fare generally better in recognizing images related to science than in responding to textual questions. Images could offer relevant opportunities for greater public engagement with scientific results.

Buchi, M. (2017). "Microblogging as an extension of science reporting." Public Understanding of Science 26(8): 953-968.	Mass media have long provided general publics with science news. New media such as Twitter have entered this system and provide an additional platform for the dissemination of science information. Based on automated collection and analysis of >900 news articles and 70,000 tweets, this study explores the online communication of current science news. Topic modeling (latent Dirichlet allocation) was used to extract five broad themes of science reporting: space missions, the US government shutdown, cancer research, Nobel Prizes, and climate change. Using content and network analysis, Twitter was found to extend public science communication by providing additional voices and contextualizations of science issues. It serves a recommender role by linking to web resources, connecting users, and directing users' attention. This article suggests that microblogging adds a new and relevant layer to the public communication of science.

Buck, J. A., et al. (2000). "Commentary: Communicating science - The difficulty introduced by the historical politics of the English language." Science Communication 22(1): 73-87.	Understanding scientific concepts does not come easily to Americans, who nevertheless enjoy tremendous benefits because of scientific progress. The average citizen has a need to know more about scientific concepts to participate in the ongoing dialogue about everything from the cloning of Dolly (the sheep), to the possible entitlement of prescription drug coverage for senior citizens, to the way the Internet is changing the American way of life. Language sets up our framework for understanding, and awareness of the politics embodied in the three origins of the English language is the key to explaining scientific concepts more clearly. Because of an ancient cultural struggle, English is unusual among Indo-European languages in its way of "knowing," a core concept of science. To enter our minds, scientists must remember our hearts.

Buckland, D. and R. Lertzman (2008). "David Buckland, Founder, Cape Farewell, with Renee Lertzman." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(1): 110-118.	Cape Farewell is the brainchild of London-based artist David Buckland. The project is centered round a series of sailing voyages into the Arctic, through routes that were previously icebound but are now passable. The expeditions take teams of world-renowned artists, educators, writers, musicians and thinkers into the Arctic, onboard a hundred-year old schooner, with the invitation to engage with scientists (from the National Oceanography Centre, as well as Southampton), to make art, and to draw people's attention to the effects of ocean currents on us and our climate. Since its first expedition in 2003, the project has grown to include educational programs, an award-winning website, a BBC documentary, and an exhibit, "The Ship, The Art of Climate Change,'' developed with the Natural History Museum and which has embarked on a worldwide tour. In August 2007, Cape Farewell began a three-year residency at Southbank Centre, operating as a cultural eco-hub for the Centre's creative climate change initiatives, and has started a collaboration with the Eden Project in Cornwall, UK.
This interview was conducted in the Cape Farewell offices, which are in David Buckland's studio atop his family home in Camden, London. Currently, Renee Lertzman is conducting a PhD in critical psychology studies at Cardiff University in Wales, UK. Her interviews and writings relating to environmental communication have appeared in The Sun Magazine, Orion, Land and People (Trust for Public Land), Speak Magazine, Terra Nova, and Organization & Environment. Lertzman can be contacted at http://www.reneelertzman.org. For more information about Cape Farewell, visit http://capefarewell.org.

Budd, J. M. (2001). "Misreading Science in the twentieth century." Science Communication 22(3): 300-315.	Instances of fraud and misconduct in science, along with debates regarding the nature of science and scientific practice, have led to some challenges in the reading of scientific texts. Applying the frameworks of reception theory and reader-response criticism is helpful in understanding the variations in the readings of the texts, as well as the reasons for the differing readings. The textural aspect of scientific communication illustrates both the realist and the social elements of scientific practice and the problems for reception presented by the complex dynamics of communicating scientific work.

Bulkeley, H. (2000). "Common knowledge? Public understanding of climate change in Newcastle, Australia." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 313-333.	This paper argues that public understanding of climate change not only involves knowledge of its physical processes, but also encompasses wider issues concerning the relation between society and nature. It examines the conclusions of previous research, and assumptions made within the policy community concerning public understanding of climate change. It is argued that in each case, in accordance with the information deficit model, recorded levels of ignorance are seen as a barrier to effective public involvement in the policy process. This view is challenged by research findings from Newcastle, Australia. Public understanding of global environmental issues drew not only on scientific information, but also on local knowledges, values, and moral responsibilities. Further, respondents connected the issue to their communities, and suggested that individual action is morally sanctioned, despite concerns for the efficacy of such action and the lack of government or industry support. Where institutional realignment has occurred to provide renewable energy to householders, public involvement has been forthcoming. These findings suggest that rather than focus on the provision of information, policy attention should be directed to the social and institutional barriers that act to constrain public involvement in addressing global environmental issues.

Burakgazi, S. G. and A. Yildirim (2014). "Accessing Science Through Media: Uses and Gratifications Among Fourth and Fifth Graders for Science Learning." Science Communication 36(2): 168-193.	This qualitative phenomenological study aims to investigate fourth and fifth graders' uses of mass media (TV, newspapers, Internet, magazines) and to assess their various features as sources for science learning. The data were collected from 47 purposefully selected students through focus groups and were analyzed through qualitative analysis using uses and gratifications theory as a conceptual framework. The results indicated that students were active in choosing and utilizing media to meet their cognitive, affective, personal integrative, and social integrative needs. Furthermore accessibility, content, and presentation were the key factors in influencing students' motivation of use of the media.

Burch, K. (1995). "Intellectual Property-Rights and the Culture of Global Liberalism." Science Communication 17(2): 214-232.	The recently inaugurated World Trade Organization (WTO) formally specifies and protects intellectual property rights as it sets the rules for a global open-market economy. It does so by advancing a culturally specific notion of property rights as private and exclusive. In so doing, the WTO also promotes the defining concepts of liberalism-rights and property-and extends them globally in the service of open-market principles. Liberalism, originally a seventeenth-century European political theory, is now recognizable as a distinct ensemble of cultural practices and meanings. As international interactions are increasingly defined by liberal concepts and conform to liberal principles a nascent global culture of liberalism develops distinctively from its national forms. This article places these events in several broad contexts, including U.S. foreign policy, open-trade advocacy, and intellectual property protection.

Burchell, K. (2007). "Empiricist selves and contingent "others": the performative function of the discourse of scientists working in conditions of controversy." Public Understanding of Science 16(2): 145-162.	The objective of this article is to report the results of 18 semi-structured interviews, conducted in the UK during the spring of 2003, with scientists working in the locally controversial area of crop genetics. Results suggest that, when talking about their own beliefs and actions, most of the scientists utilized what can be referred to as an empiricist repertoire, in which beliefs and actions are seen to derive from the natural world, an objective and rigorous method, and an ethical framework. By contrast, when talking about the beliefs and actions of four key '' others,'' most of the scientists relied upon a contrasting contingent repertoire, in which beliefs and actions are seen to derive from personal shortcomings, inclinations and self interest, and to be in contradiction of an ethical framework. It is suggested that the extent to which the discourse of these crop geneticists followed this pattern may be related to the conditions of controversy within which they were working at the time of the interviews. The small number of cases that contradict this pattern are also examined. The implications of this for relationships between science and the public are briefly discussed.

Burger, J. (2004). "Fish consumption advisories: knowledge, compliance and why people fish in an urban estuary." Journal of Risk Research 7(5): 463-479.	The risk to human consumers from contaminants in fish is often dealt with by issuing consumption advisories. The hypothesis that consumption rates vary as a function of knowledge about advisories was tested for 254 people fishing in the Newark Bay Complex, in the New York/New Jersey harbour estuary. Interviews were conducted in the complex throughout the fishing season. There were no ethnic differences in the percentage of people who fished, crabbed, or did both, Most people either fished or crabbed, but not both, which has implications for risk assessment and communication. Only 45% of the people interviewed had heard about advisories; American Indians had heard little about fish advisories, and Hispanics had heard little about crab advisories. There were ethnic differences in education, consumption patterns, and knowledge about advisories. Knowledge about consumption advisories and the amount of fish and crabs consumed are negatively correlated. Despite laws forbidding catching (and consuming) crabs from Newark Bay Complex, people continue to do so. A higher percentage of people who consume the most fish and crabs are aware of consumption advisories, compared to those at the low end of consumption, but people who consume no fish or crabs from the Newark Bay Complex have the highest level of knowledge. There are few differences in the ratings of the reasons for fishing between those who are, and are not, aware of advisories. Since people mainly fish and crab to be outdoors and with friends and family, relax, and commune with nature, risk assessors and communicators should acknowledge the social and aesthetic nature of the activity, and address consumption by separating the activity (fishing, crabbing) from the risk (pregnant women and children should limit consumption).

Burger, J. (2012). "Rating of worry about energy sources with respect to public health, environmental health, and workers." Journal of Risk Research 15(9): 1159-1169.	Environmental risks of different energy sources pose a significant problem for managers, decision-makers, and the general public. Attitudes and perceptions may differ by type of energy, as well as the recipient of the harm. A post-Fukushima survey of students and others in a university community in central New Jersey was conducted to determine how much people worried about the potential effects of different energy types (nuclear, chemical, coal, hydroelectric, solar, wind, and gas), which aspect they worried about (public health, workers, and the environment), and which form they thought the USA should further develop. Ratings for worry varied significantly by energy type and receptor type. In general, worry was greater for all aspects of chemical, coal, nuclear, and gas, and significantly less for hydro, solar, and wind. Worry was generally higher for exposure from the plant, exposure from food and water, exposure to workers, and exposure for wildlife than for either transportation issues or exposure from everyday occurrences. The same exposures (or targets) were rated for each energy source. The greatest worry for each energy type was as follows: (1) nuclear exposure to radiation in food, although worker exposure and exposure from the plant were very close, (2) chemical exposure was from accidents in the plant, (3) coal was from harmful effects of mercury on wildlife, (4) hydro was from contamination of drinking water, (5) solar was from harmful UV radiation exposure in wildlife, (6) wind was from mortality of birds due to wind turbines, and (7) gas was from harmful gas exposure to wildlife. Overall, the highest rated features in terms of worry (four of seven energy forms) were for wildlife. The survey population believed that wind, solar, tidal, and hydro power should be developed further, and coal should be developed the least.

Burger, J. and K. R. Campbell (2008). "Fishing and consumption patterns of anglers adjacent to the Oak Ridge Reservation, Tennessee: higher income anglers ate more fish and are more at risk." Journal of Risk Research 11(3): 335-350.	The risks from consuming self-caught fish are receiving international attention because of high levels of contaminants in some species. The ethnic, income, and educational differences in fishing and fish consumption patterns of 202 anglers fishing along the Clinch River arm of Watts Bar Reservoir adjacent to the US Department of Energy's Oak Ridge Reservation (ORR) or along Poplar Creek within ORR boundaries were analyzed to understand how to design a risk communication strategy. Because of elevated PCB concentrations in striped bass (Morone saxatilis), catfish (Ictalurus spp.), and sauger (Stizostedion canadense) due partly from contaminants released from the ORR in East Tennessee, the Clinch River arm of Watts Bar Reservoir is under a fish consumption advisory, while portions of Poplar Creek are under advisories because of mercury. Most studies find that a high proportion of anglers eat their catch, and people with lower incomes and less education generally eat more self-caught fish than others fishing in the same region. Calculating fish consumption individually for each person indicated that a considerable number of people ate more fish from the study area than the amount used to calculate risks when developing fish consumption advisories, and people who ate fish more often usually ate larger portions. Unlike previous studies of fish consumption, this study indicated that a smaller proportion of anglers ate their fish, and those that ate the most were the high income anglers for this fishing population, rather than those with lower incomes. This suggests that risk communication strategies must include site-specific information on the population at risk from fish consumption, and that targeting only low income, low education anglers will miss some people who are most at risk.

Burger, J., et al. (2014). "Mercury at Oak Ridge: outcomes from risk evaluations can differ depending upon objectives and methodologies." Journal of Risk Research 17(9): 1109-1124.	Risk evaluations play an important role in environmental management, remediation and restoration. Yet when different agencies and groups evaluate risk, the objectives and methods may differ, leading to different conclusions, which can confuse managers, policy-makers and the public. In this paper, we examine two evaluations of the potential risk from mercury contamination deriving from the Y-12 facility at the Department of Energy's Oak Ridge Reservation (Tennessee, USA). The US Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) examined the past and present risks from mercury to humans, using data provided in government reports and publications. The Consortium for Risk Evaluation with Stakeholder Participation (CRESP) used a risk-informed prioritization model, developed for managers to evaluate different remediation projects. The CRESP prioritization model considered both human and ecological receptors, as well as future potential risks. Risk was an important component of both evaluations, and both evaluations found that there was a completed pathway of mercury from the source on the Oak Ridge Reservation to offsite human receptors, although the evaluations differed in their final conclusions. CRESP evaluated the risk as 'high', while the ATSDR noted that the risk was 'moderate' for people consuming fish from East Fork Poplar Creek. In both cases, the pathway to off-site human exposure was through fish consumption. The two evaluations are compared with respect to purpose, specific goals, target audience, receptors, assumptions, time frames, evaluation criteria and conclusions. When these aspects are considered, the risk evaluations are congruent, although the risk communication messages differ. We conclude that there are many different possible risk evaluations, and the aforementioned variables must be carefully considered when making management decisions, determining remediation goals, and communicating with regulators, managers, public policy-makers and the public.

Burger, J. and M. Gochfeld (1991). "Fishing a Superfund Site - Dissonance and Risk Perception of Environmental Hazards by Fishermen in Puerto-Rico." Risk Analysis 11(2): 269-277.	Risk perception studies show that individuals tend to underestimate significant risks, overestimate negligible ones, and distrust authorities.  They also rely on a variety of strategies or heuristics to reach decisions regarding their risk-taking behavior.  We report on a survey of fishermen and crabbers engaged in recreational and subsistence fishing in a Puerto Rican estuary (near Humacao), which has been declared a "Superfund site" because of suspected contamination by mercury, and at ecologically similar control sites.  Nearly everyone interviewed at the Humacao site was aware of the mercury contamination, but either denied its importance, believed the contamination was restricted to a distant part of the estuary, or assumed that the estuary would be closed by the authorities if the threat was real.  All site-users consumed the fish and crabs they caught.  At Humacao, the average catch was 7 fish per fishermen (mostly tilapia, Tilapia mossambica, and tarpon, Megalops atlantica) and 13 crabs per crabber (all blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus).  On average, the site-users returned to the lagoons about 3-4 times per month.  At control sites, fewer fish were eaten.  The worst case consumption of tarpon, a species which concentrated mercury at Eastern Puerto Rico, provided an exposure exceeding the EPA reference dose, whereas consumption of one tarpon per week did not entail excess exposure.  Fortunately, few individuals caught tarpon exclusively.  Unlike counterparts in the northeastern United States, they trusted authorities and indicated that they would have heeded warnings of mercury contamination posted where they fished.

Burger, J., et al. (2003). "Perceptions of recreational fishing boat captains: Knowledge and effects of fish consumption advisories." Risk Analysis 23(2): 369-378.	The impacts of fish consumption advisories on recreational and subsistence fishing, particularly in fresh waters, have been examined extensively. By contrast, little attention has focused on organized recreational fishing, such as from party and charter boats, and particularly for salt water fish. We interviewed 93 New Jersey boat captains to determine their knowledge about fish consumption advisories, and whether, in their opinion, clients knew of fish consumption advisories, and whether they thought advisories had an effect on recreational fishing and their businesses. Advisories were ranked by captains as a moderate influence on the success of their business, less so than number of fish caught, strength of the economy, overfishing by commercial boats, and management regulations. Only one boat captain had not heard warnings about eating fish, but what captains said they had heard was mixed in its accuracy and completeness. Clients expect captains to know about fish, and about half of boat captains said clients had asked about the safety of eating fish. Captains who felt advisories were affecting their businesses tended to fish for species without high levels of mercury (except for bluefish) or PCBs, the primary contaminants of concern for state advisories and federal advice. However, these captains worked closer to areas (e.g., Raritan Bay complex and New York Harbor) subject to advisories than did other captains, and were more prone to say that management regulations (e.g., fish size, creel limits, seasons) and marketing and advertising by the industry or state were strong influences on the success of their seasons. Comparing captains who thought advisories had some or great effect (60%) versus those reporting "no effect" (40%), there was no difference in the mean percentage of trips targeting high mercury species such as swordfish and shark. Many captains said they would or might post advisories, but 42% of the boat captains said they would not post consumption warnings if the state provided them. The significant portion (at least 15%) of saltwater fishing supported by these businesses suggests that these captains are an important conduit for future risk communication.

Burger, J., et al. (2003). "Evaluating risk communication about fish consumption advisories: Efficacy of a brochure versus a classroom lesson in Spanish and English." Risk Analysis 23(4): 791-803.	Presentation format can influence the way target audiences understand risk-related information. Brochures or fish fact sheets are the methods traditionally used by state agencies to inform the public about fish consumption advisories and the risks from consuming fish. This study examines the efficacy of presenting information about the risks from consuming contaminated fish and shellfish in two different formats: a brochure and classroom presentation. The two instruments were developed and tested in Spanish and English, reflecting the local ethnic composition in the Newark Bay Complex. The instruments were tested on women of childbearing age at the Women, Infants, and Children Center in Elizabeth, New Jersey. Detailed diagrams were used in both presentations, including contaminated fish species, fish preparation methods, and food chain bioaccumulation and transmission to the fetus. There were few language-related differences in the efficacy of the classroom lesson, and the main ideas were understood by both groups. Where there were significant differences in understanding about the risks from consuming fish or crabs from the contaminated waters of Newark Bay, in all cases the women exposed to the classroom lesson had a better understanding than those who read the brochure. Ninety-six percent of the women who heard the lesson understood that it was unsafe to eat fish from the port, compared to 72% of those reading the brochure. Both formats succeeded in imparting information to most women about the area under advisories, the fish species under advisories, and transmission of toxins to the fetus. Information on fish preparation was recalled less clearly, partly because women were asked to relate methods to reduce the risk from consuming fish from 11 presented, and most recalled only two or three of the list. The advantages and disadvantages of conducting short classes to women of child-bearingage are discussed.

Burger, J., et al. (2008). "Fish consumption: efficacy among fishermen of a brochure developed for pregnant women." Journal of Risk Research 11(7): 891-904.	The risk to human consumers from contaminants in fish is often dealt with by issuing consumption advisories, or in some cases, information brochures. Normally advisories and brochures are developed and tested with anglers. We examine the efficacy of a fish consumption brochure that was developed for pregnant women on people engaged in fishing in the Newark Bay Complex. The brochures were in English and Spanish, and subjects could read and be interviewed in either language. Of the 151 people interviewed, 32% were women, 58% spoke only English, 22% spoke mainly Spanish and the rest felt comfortable with both languages. There were no differences in the percent that were present as a function of preferred language. There were significant differences in the understanding of the brochure, depending upon preferred language (and the language of the brochure). In general, anglers preferring Spanish and who read the brochure in Spanish obtained fewer of the messages correctly than those who preferred English (seven of seven questions). There were also gender differences in efficacy of the brochures; a higher percentage of female anglers thought that the fish were not safe to eat from the port and thought that eating contaminated fish from the port could harm their baby. Although the correct message was obtained by 34-100% of the anglers, depending upon the question, and 60-75% of the anglers believed the pamphlet, only 16% (Spanish-speaking) to 47% (Bilingual) planned on changing the species of fish they eat or the method of cooking. These data suggest that a pamphlet designed for pregnant women is useful for anglers, and they can obtain the 'correct' message from it. However, a relatively small percentage of subjects were persuaded to change their cooking or consumption behavior. In addition to television, subjects felt that the direct approach of distributing brochures face-to-face was an important method of communication of fish consumers.

Burgess, A., et al. (2018). "Considering risk: placing the work of Ulrich Beck in context." Journal of Risk Research 21(1): 1-5.
	
Burgess, J. (1999). "Frankenstein's footsteps: Science, genetics and popular culture." Public Understanding of Science 8(2): 142-144.
	
Burgess, J., et al. (2007). "Deliberative mapping: a novel analytic-deliberative methodology to support contested science-policy decisions." Public Understanding of Science 16(3): 299-322.	This paper discusses the methodological development of Deliberative Mapping (DM), a participatory, multi-criteria, option appraisal process that combines a novel approach to the use of quantitative decision analysis techniques with some significant innovations in the field of participatory deliberation. DM is a symmetrical process, engaging "specialists" and "citizens" in the same appraisal process, providing for consistency of framing, mutual inter-linkage and interrogation, and substantial opportunities for face-to-face discussion. Through a detailed case study of organ transplantation options, the paper discusses the steps in DM. The analysis shows that DM is able to elicit and document consensual judgments as well as divergent views by integrating analytic and deliberative components in a transparent, auditable process that creates many opportunities for personal learning, and provides a robust decision-support tool for contested science-policy issues.

Burgess, M. M. (2014). "From 'trust us' to participatory governance: Deliberative publics and science policy." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 48-52.	The last 20 years have seen a shift from the view that publics need to be educated so that they trust science and its governance to the recognition that publics possess important local knowledge and the capacity to understand technical information sufficiently to participate in policy decisions. There are now a variety of approaches to increasing the role of publics and advocacy groups in the policy and governance of science and biotechnology. This article considers recent experiences that demonstrate that it is possible to bring together those with policy making responsibility and diverse publics to co-produce policy and standards of practice that are technically informed, incorporate wide social perspectives and explicitly involve publics in key decisions. Further, the process of deliberation involving publics is capable of being incorporated into governance structures to enhance the capacity to respond to emerging issues with levels of public engagement that are proportionate to the issues.

Burke, B. J., et al. (2016). "Can Science Writing Collectives Overcome Barriers to More Democratic Communication and Collaboration? Lessons from Environmental Communication Praxis in Southern Appalachia." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(2): 169-186.	Despite compelling reasons to involve nonscientists in the production of ecological knowledge, cultural and institutional factors often dis-incentivize engagement between scientists and nonscientists. This paper details our efforts to develop a biweekly newspaper column to increase communication between ecological scientists, social scientists, and the communities within which they work. Addressing community-generated topics and written by a collective of social and natural scientists, the column is meant to foster public dialog about socio-environmental issues and to lay the groundwork for the coproduction of environmental knowledge. Our collective approach to writing addresses some major barriers to public engagement by scientists, but the need to insert ourselves as intermediaries limits these gains. Overall, our efforts at environmental communication praxis have not generated significant public debate, but they have supported future coproduction by making scientists a more visible presence in the community and providing easy pathways for them to begin engaging the public. Finally, this research highlights an underappreciated barrier to public engagement: scientists are not merely disconnected from the public, but also connected in ways that may be functional for their research. Many field scientists, for example, seek out neutral and narrowly defined connections that permit research access but are largely incompatible with efforts to address controversial issues of environmental governance.

Burningham, K., et al. (2007). "Industrial constructions of publics and public knowledge: a qualitative investigation of practice in the UK chemicals industry." Public Understanding of Science 16(1): 23-43.	While the rhetoric of public engagement is increasingly commonplace within industry, there has been little research that examines how lay knowledge is conceptualized and whether it is really used within companies. Using the chemicals sector as an example, this paper explores how companies conceive of publics and "public knowledge," and how this relates to modes of engagement/communication with them. Drawing on qualitative empirical research in four companies, we demonstrate that the public for industry are primarily conceived as "consumers" and "neighbours," having concerns that should be allayed rather than as groups with knowledge meriting engagement. We conclude by highlighting the dissonance between current advocacy of engagement and the discourses and practices prevalent within industry, and highlight the need for more realistic strategies for industry/public engagement.

Burns, M. (2016). "Political implications of science popularisation strategies: Frontiers of Science." Public Understanding of Science 25(5): 518-530.	This examination of the mediation strategies of a very popular factual science comic strip series from the 1960s and 1970s illustrates, in this case by highlighting the ways in which women were targeted as an audience, that science popularisations are always political. For that reason, they should not be evaluated merely in terms of scientific accuracy. I demonstrate tensions between the dissemination model of communication used in the distribution of science popularisations, on the one hand, with the advocacy of a dialogue model in their content, on the other.

Burns, M. and F. Medvecky (2018). "The disengaged in science communication: How not to count audiences and publics." Public Understanding of Science 27(2): 118-130.	In this article, we suggest that three concepts from cultural and media studies might be useful for analysing the ways audiences are constructed in science communication: that media are immanent to society, media are multiple and various, and audiences are active. This article uses those concepts, along with insights from Science and Technology Studies (STS), to examine the category of the disengaged' within science communication. This article deals with the contrast between common sense' and scholarly ideas of media and audiences in the field of cultural and media studies. It compares the common sense' with scholarly ideas of science publics from STS. We conclude that it may be time to reconsider the ontology of publics and the disengaged for science communication.

Burns, T. W., et al. (2003). "Science communication: a contemporary definition." Public Understanding of Science 12(2): 183-202.	Science communication is a growing area of practice and research. During the past two decades, the number of activities, courses, and practitioners has steadily increased. But what actually is science communication? In what ways is it different to public awareness of science, public understanding of science, scientific culture, and scientific literacy? The authors review the literature to draw together a comprehensive set of definitions for these related terms. A unifying structure is presented and a contemporary definition of science communication positioned within this framework. Science communication (SciCom) is defined as the use of appropriate skills, media, activities, and dialogue to produce one or more of the following personal responses to science (the AEIOU vowel analogy): Awareness, Enjoyment, Interest, Opinion-forming, and Understanding. The definition provides an outcomes-type view of science communication, and provides the foundations for further research and evaluation.

Burns, W. J., et al. (2012). "Risk Perception and the Economic Crisis: A Longitudinal Study of the Trajectory of Perceived Risk." Risk Analysis 32(4): 659-677.	We conducted a longitudinal survey of public response to the economic crisis to understand the trajectory of risk perception amidst an ongoing crisis. A nation-wide panel responded to seven surveys beginning in late September 2008 at the peak of the crisis and concluded in October 2009. At least 600 respondents participated in each survey, with 413 completing all seven surveys. Our online survey focused on perceptions of risk (savings, investments, retirement, job), negative emotions toward the financial crisis (sadness, anxiety, fear, anger, worry, stress), confidence in national leaders to manage the crisis (President Obama, Congress, Treasury Secretary, business leaders), and belief in one's ability to realize personal objectives despite the crisis. We employed latent growth curve modeling to analyze change in risk perception throughout the crisis. Our results suggest that, in general, people's perceptions of risk appear to decrease most rapidly during the initial phase of a crisis and then begin to level off. Negative emotion about the crisis was the most predictive of increased risk perception, supporting the notion of risk as feelings. Belief in one's ability to realize personal objectives was also predictive. Confidence in national leaders, however, was not predictive of perceived risk. Finally, our results demonstrate that groups may experience a crisis differently depending on a combination of personal characteristics such as gender, income, numeracy, and political attitude. Risk management and communication should work in sync with these mechanisms and differences across groups.

Burr, S. L. (1996). "Protecting business secrets in national and international commerce." Science Communication 17(3): 274-303.	This article argues for elevating trade secrets from stepchild to full member of the intellectual property family. The case for doing so rests on sound social policy, empirical evidence, case law and anecdotal stories that have attained a great deal of media attention. The article describes how the changing U.S. domestic legal environment for protecting trade secrets is influencing practices within a distinct community of business concerns that owns trade secrets. The author surveyed New Mexico manufacturers and asked them whether they owned trade secrets, how they protect their trade secrets, and whether their trade secrets have ever been stolen. The survey revealed that manufacturers doing business in multiple jurisdictions are more likely to own trade secrets, to protect their trade secrets by having employees sign secrecy agreements and covenants not to compete, and to have had their trade secrets stolen. Nevertheless, these manufacturers rarely resort to the legal system to redress trade secret theft. Further the article examines the many changes in international treaties that protect trade secrets and suggests that domestic and international economics will profit from increased trade secret protection because protecting undisclosed information increases the need for independent scientific investigation and thus augments the number of choices available to consumers.

Burri, R. V. (2009). "Coping with uncertainty: Assessing nanotechnologies in a citizen panel in Switzerland." Public Understanding of Science 18(5): 498-511.	The policy shift towards "upstream public engagement" requires dealing with a lack of individual and stabilized scientific knowledge that accompanies any early stage of research and development. This article examines how actors cope with this epistemic uncertainty when deliberating emerging technologies. Analyzing the arguments of the participants in a Swiss citizen panel on nanotechnology, the article explores how actors form their opinions in an epistemically nonstabilized situation. The article shows how actors develop a strategy to handle this situation: analogies, such as to other risk technologies or "nature," and personal experiences as patients and consumers are used as interpretive patterns and serve as tools to cope with the unknown. Focusing on the ways uncertainty is handled, this approach is differentiated from other models to explain public attitudes toward emerging technologies, such as the "scientific literacy model" or the "cognitive miser model.".

Busby, J. and D. Duckett (2012). "Social risk amplification as an attribution: the case of zoonotic disease outbreaks." Journal of Risk Research 15(9): 1049-1074.	Past work on social risk amplification has concentrated on studying large-scale, aggregated societal responses to risk issues as the outcome of social processes. An alternative approach, explored in this article, is to regard amplification as an attribution. Social risk amplification is something that social actors attribute to one another as they try to explain their systematic differences in response, not an objective characterisation of a response that is somehow disproportionate to its stimulus. This avoids the problem that the idea of a social amplification of risk can be taken to imply that a risk external to the social system can somehow be distorted by it. The attributional view also helps illustrate differences in risk response as much as commonalities. In order to explore risk amplification as an attribution we analyse the explanations and descriptions used by actors discussing recent outbreaks of zoonotic disease. We present a grounded analysis that produces a classification of these explanations and descriptions. It is evident from the cliches that informants used - such as 'crying wolf', 'scare-mongering' and 'jumping on the bandwagon' - that social actors have had a concept resembling social risk amplification that long predates the social amplification of risk framework. Moreover, they use it in a strongly normative way: sometimes saying this amplification is explicable and excusable, sometimes not. It is therefore a basis of social judgment. The idea of amplification as an attribution offers the particular advantage that it helps deal with situations where social actors develop their risk responses in reaction to the risk responses of other social actors.

Busby, J. S., et al. (2017). "Analysis of Affordance, Time, and Adaptation in the Assessment of Industrial Control System Cybersecurity Risk." Risk Analysis 37(7): 1298-1314.	Industrial control systems increasingly use standard communication protocols and are increasingly connected to public networks-creating substantial cybersecurity risks, especially when used in critical infrastructures such as electricity and water distribution systems. Methods of assessing risk in such systems have recognized for some time the way in which the strategies of potential adversaries and risk managers interact in defining the risk to which such systems are exposed. But it is also important to consider the adaptations of the systems' operators and other legitimate users to risk controls, adaptations that often appear to undermine these controls, or shift the risk from one part of a system to another. Unlike the case with adversarial risk analysis, the adaptations of system users are typically orthogonal to the objective of minimizing or maximizing risk in the system. We argue that this need to analyze potential adaptations to risk controls is true for risk problems more generally, and we develop a framework for incorporating such adaptations into an assessment process. The method is based on the principle of affordances, and we show how this can be incorporated in an iterative procedure based on raising the minimum period of risk materialization above some threshold. We apply the method in a case study of a small European utility provider and discuss the observations arising from this.

Bush, J., et al. (2001). "Keeping the public informed? Public negotiation of air quality information." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 213-229.	Air quality information has been made available to the public in the UK since 1990. However, relatively little work has been done to explore the impact of this information and the ways in which it is interpreted and evaluated by members of the public. In this paper, we describe a social constructionist approach to exploring public views on air quality information based on a case study in Teesside and Sunderland in northeast England. Our research findings, based on semi-structured in-depth interviews with 41 people, suggest that the public doesn't "assimilate" air quality information in a passive way, but actively negotiates and critically evaluates such information on the basis of a range of cultural resources, including experiential and local knowledges. Validity, reliability, and trustworthiness of air quality information is scrutinized by members of the public at three main levels: (1) air quality monitoring, (2) the authorities that collect and provide air quality information, and (3) the parameters used to present this information to the public. We consider the implications of these findings for debates on the public negotiation of scientific information and for policies relating to the provision of air quality information. On the basis of our findings, we make some preliminary suggestions regarding ways of developing air quality information services that are more responsive to the needs of the public.

Bush, M. (2018). "1891: The Collins-Hosking debate, Christchurch." Public Understanding of Science 27(7): 897-904.
	
Buttel, F. H. (2002). "A grain of truth: The media, the public, and biotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 11(3): 305-306.
	
Buttny, R. and A. M. Feldpausch-Parker (2016). "Communicating hydrofracking." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(3): 289-291.
	
Buys, L., et al. (2014). "Perceptions of climate change and trust in information providers in rural Australia." Public Understanding of Science 23(2): 170-188.	Disagreement within the global science community about the certainty and causes of climate change has led the general public to question what to believe and whom to trust on matters related to this issue. This paper reports on qualitative research undertaken with Australian residents from two rural areas to explore their perceptions of climate change and trust in information providers. While overall, residents tended to agree that climate change is a reality, perceptions varied in terms of its causes and how best to address it. Politicians, government, and the media were described as untrustworthy sources of information about climate change, with independent scientists being the most trusted. The vested interests of information providers appeared to be a key reason for their distrust. The findings highlight the importance of improved transparency and consultation with the public when communicating information about climate change and related policies.

Byrne, P. F., et al. (2002). "Increasing public understanding of transgenic crops through the World Wide Web." Public Understanding of Science 11(3): 293-304.	Transgenic crops are among the most controversial "science and society" issues of recent years. Because of the complex techniques involved in creating these crops and the polarized debate over their risks and benefits, a critical need has arisen for accessible and balanced information on this technology. World Wide Web sites offer several advantages for disseminating information on a fast-changing technical topic, including their global accessibility; and their ability to update information frequently, incorporate multimedia formats, and link to networks of other sites. An alliance between two complementary web sites at Colorado State University and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln takes advantage of the web environment to help fill the need for public information on crop genetic engineering. This article describes the objectives and features of each site. Viewership data-and other feedback have shown these web sites to be effective means of reaching public audiences on a complex scientific topic.

Cacciatore, M. A., et al. (2018). "Opposing ends of the spectrum: Exploring trust in scientific and religious authorities." Public Understanding of Science 27(1): 11-28.	Given the ethical questions that surround emerging science, this study is interested in studying public trust in scientific and religious authorities for information about the risks and benefits of science. Using data from a nationally representative survey of American adults, we employ regression analysis to better understand the relationships between several variablesincluding values, knowledge, and media attentionand trust in religious organizations and scientific institutions. We found that Evangelical Christians are generally more trusting of religious authority figures to tell the truth about the risks and benefits of science and technology, and only slightly less likely than non-Evangelicals to trust scientific authorities for the same information. We also found that many Evangelicals use mediated information and science knowledge differently than non-Evangelicals, with both increased knowledge and attention to scientific media having positive impacts on trust in scientific authorities among the latter, but not the former group.

Cacciatore, M. A., et al. (2018). "It's Complicated: The 2014-2015 US Measles Outbreak and Parents' Vaccination Beliefs, Confidence, and Intentions." Risk Analysis 38(10): 2178-2192.	While it seems intuitive that highly visible vaccine-preventable disease outbreaks should impact perceptions of disease risk and facilitate vaccination, few empirical studies exist to confirm or dispel these beliefs. This study investigates the impact of the 2014-2015 Disneyland measles outbreak on parents' vaccination attitudes and future vaccination intentions. The analysis relies on a pair of public opinion surveys of American parents with at least one child under the age of six (N = 1,000 across each survey). Controlling for basic demographics, we found higher levels of reported confidence in the safety and efficacy of childhood vaccinations in our follow-up data collection. However, this confidence was also accompanied by elevated levels of concern toward childhood vaccines among American parents. We then examined how different subgroups in the population scored on these measures before and after the outbreak. We found that parents with high levels of interest in the topic of vaccines and a child who is not fully upto date with the recommended vaccination schedule reported more supportive attitudes toward vaccines. However, future intentions to follow the recommended vaccination schedule were not positively impacted by the outbreak. Possible explanations for these results and implications for vaccination outreach are discussed.

Cacciatore, M. A., et al. (2011). "From enabling technology to applications: The evolution of risk perceptions about nanotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 385-404.	Public opinion research on nanotechnology has primarily focused on judgments of abstract risks and benefits, rather than attitudes toward specific applications. This approach will be less useful as nanotechnology morphs from a scientific breakthrough into an enabling technology whose impacts on people's lives come in the form of concrete applications in specific areas. This study examines the mental connections or associations US citizens have with nanotechnology (e.g. the extent to which people associate nanotechnology with the medical field, the military, consumer products, etc.), and how these associations moderate the influences of risk and benefit perceptions on attitudes toward nanotechnology. Our results suggest that the assumption that risk perceptions shape overall attitudes toward emerging technologies is simplistic. Rather, individuals who associate nanotech with particular areas of application, such as the medical field, take risk perceptions much more into account when forming attitudes than respondents who do not make these mental connections.

Cacciatore, M. A., et al. (2014). "Another (methodological) look at knowledge gaps and the Internet's potential for closing them." Public Understanding of Science 23(4): 376-394.	Members of the World Economic Forum recently identified the economic, health and knowledge disparities between the "haves" and "have-nots" in the world as one of the central risks in the global risk landscape. However, research on the role of communication in reducing knowledge disparities for emerging technologies is rare. More importantly, little research has tracked knowledge gaps about emerging technologies in representative populations over time. In this study we examine U. S. public knowledge levels across different levels of education and media use using data from two nationally representative telephone surveys. Our results show that increased science Internet and television use among low education groups can help narrow, or significantly reduce the growth of knowledge gaps that are forming based on educational disparities.

Cagliano, A. C., et al. (2012). "An integrated approach to supply chain risk analysis." Journal of Risk Research 15(7): 817-840.	Despite the increasing attention that supply chain risk management is receiving by both researchers and practitioners, companies still lack a risk culture. Moreover, risk management approaches are either too general or require pieces of information not regularly recorded by organisations. This work develops a risk identification and analysis methodology that integrates widely adopted supply chain and risk management tools. In particular, process analysis is performed by means of the standard framework provided by the Supply Chain Operations Reference Model, the risk identification and analysis tasks are accomplished by applying the Risk Breakdown Structure and the Risk Breakdown Matrix, and the effects of risk occurrence on activities are assessed by indicators that are already measured by companies in order to monitor their performances. In such a way, the framework contributes to increase companies' awareness and communication about risk, which are essential components of the management of modern supply chains. A base case has been developed by applying the proposed approach to a hypothetical manufacturing supply chain. An in-depth validation will be carried out to improve the methodology and further demonstrate its benefits and limitations. Future research will extend the framework to include the understanding of the multiple effects of risky events on different processes.

Cagliano, A. C., et al. (2015). "Choosing project risk management techniques. A theoretical framework." Journal of Risk Research 18(2): 232-248.	The pressure for increasing quality while reducing time and costs places particular emphasis on managing risk in projects. To this end, several models and techniques have been developed in literature and applied in practice, so that there is a strong need for clarifying when and how each of them should be used. At the same time, knowledge about risk management is becoming a matter of paramount importance to effectively deal with the complexity of projects. However, communication and knowledge creation are not easy tasks, especially when dealing with uncertainty, because decision-making is often fragmented and a comprehensive perspective on the goals, opportunities and threats of a project is missing. With the purpose of providing guidelines for the selection of risk techniques taking into account the most relevant aspects characterising the managerial and operational scenario of a project, a theoretical framework to classify these techniques is proposed. Based on a literature review of the criteria to categorise risk techniques, three dimensions are defined: the phase of the risk management process, the phase of the project life cycle and the corporate maturity towards risk. The taxonomy is then applied to a wide selection of risk techniques according to their documented applications. This work helps to integrate the risk management and the knowledge management processes. Future research efforts will be directed towards refining the framework and testing it in multiple industries.

Cain, J. (1999). "Darwin's sceptre: Evolutionary biology in the modern world." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 255-257.
	
Cain, J. (2006). "Lonesome George: The life and loves of a conservation icon." Public Understanding of Science 15(4): 499-501.
	
Callister, D. C. (2013). "Land Community Participation: A New "Public" Participation Model." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(4): 435-455.	This essay presents a new public participation model that responds to contemporary participation problems. The author extends criticism of a false nature/culture dualism and responds to calls for pragmatic ways to expand participation to an expressive land community. The essay draws on existing scholarship that treats a range of direct to indirect forms of participation in environmental decision-making to argue for and explicate the land community participation model (LCP). The model features participation, power, and chronemics along three distinct and intersecting continua that bind and constitute participatory communication in environmental decision-making. Combining professional field experiences with rhetorical criticism, the author pilots the LCP model in a wilderness dispute resolution case study and suggests additional ways for using LCP as an interpretive guide and design tool in pursuit of environmental democracy.

Camara, M., et al. (2018). "Attitudes towards science among Spanish citizens: The case of critical engagers." Public Understanding of Science 27(6): 690-707.	Using data obtained from Spanish surveys on the public perception of science, this article presents a critical review of current practices of population profile segmentation, including the one-dimensional representation of perceived risks and benefits and of the systematic underestimation of critical attitudes to the social impact of science and technology. We use discriminant analysis to detect a somewhat hidden cluster in the Spanish population which we call critical engagers'. These individuals are critically and socially responsible and are not reticent about expressing concern regarding scientific-technological change. While they hold an overall positive attitude towards change of this kind, they are at the same time well aware of the risks posed by particular fields of application. We highlight the academic interest and political value of these individuals, attributing to this population a mature and intelligent stance which may well be employed in enhancing the relationship between science and society.

Campanario, J. M. (1998). "Peer review for journals as it stands today - Part 2." Science Communication 19(4): 277-306.	This two-part article reviews the current literature on journal peer review. Research on this subject has grown during the 1980s and 1990s and has increased our awareness of both the myths and facts about peer review. Part 1 summarizes research findings on the participants in the system (the appointment mechanisms of editors and referees, and reviewer tasks and qualifications) and systemic problems of reliability, accuracy, and bias. Part 2 describes current research on how fraud, favoritism, and self-interest may affect the review system and on such policy issues as interference of particularistic criteria; connections among editors, authors, and referees; and double-blind review. Although the literature indicates that peer review has many problems, the author concludes that it is difficult to imagine how science could advance without such a key quality control mechanism.

Campanario, J. M. (1998). "Peer review for journals as it stands today - Part 1." Science Communication 19(3): 181-211.	This two-part article reviews the current literature on journal peer review. Research on this subject has grown during the 1980s and 1990s, and has increased our awareness of both the myths and facts about peer review. Part 1 summarizes research findings on the participants in the system (the appointment mechanisms of editors and referees, and reviewer tasks and qualifications), and systemic problems of reliability, accuracy, and bias. Part 2 describes current research on how fraud, favoritism, and self-interest may affect the review system and on such policy issues as interference of particularistic criteria; connections among editors, authors, and referees; and double-blind reviewing. Although the literature indicates that peer review has many problems, the author concludes that it is difficult to imagine how science could advance without such a key quality control mechanism.

Campbell, V. (2009). "The extinct animal show: the paleoimagery tradition and computer generated imagery in factual television programs." Public Understanding of Science 18(2): 199-213.	Extinct animals have always been popular subjects for the media, in both fiction, and factual output. In recent years, a distinctive new type of factual television program has emerged in which computer generated imagery is used extensively to bring extinct animals back to life. Such has been the commercial audience success of these programs that they have generated some public and academic debates about their relative status as science, documentary, and entertainment, as well as about their reflection of trends in factual television , and the aesthetic tensions in the application of new media technologies. Such discussions ignore a crucial contextual feature of computer generated extinct animal programs, namely the established tradition of paleoimagery. This paper examines a selection of extinct animal shows in terms of the dominant frames of the paleoimagery genre. The paper suggests that such an examination has two consequences. First, it allows for a more context-sensitive evaluation of extinct animal programs, acknowledging rather than ignoring relevant representational traditions. Second, it allows for an appraisal and evaluation of public and critical reception of extinct animal programs above and beyond the traditional debates about tensions between science, documentary, entertainment, and public understanding.

Campbell, V. (2014). "Framing Environmental Risks and Natural Disasters in Factual Entertainment Television." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(1): 58-74.	This article examines the framing of environmental risks and natural disasters in factual entertainment television programs of the early 2000s, a hybrid form combining techniques from documentary with techniques such as dramatic reconstructions and computer-generated imagery from entertainment genres. Using qualitative frame analysis, it examines a range of factual entertainment television programs' framing of environmental risk and natural disasters in terms of their attitudes, representation of human participants and visual composition. The article considers the similarities and differences in the framing of natural disasters as factual entertainment compared to the framing of natural disasters in news, documentary and fiction film. It argues that such programs offer representational frames both consonant with and distinct from other media and concludes that they problematically offer a predominantly fatalistic response to environmental risk, constructing natural disasters as voyeuristic spectacles for vicarious entertainment.

Campos, R. and M. Araujo (2017). "Traditional Artistic Expressions in Science Communication in a Globalized World: Contributions From an Exploratory Project Developed in Northeast Brazil." Science Communication 39(6): 798-809.	Science communication projects share one main goal: to bring together academia and society. However, despite the several formats used to make this bridge, traditional artistic expressionsthose that are part of the cultural identity of a groupare seldom used. These formats can be particularly relevant in a globalized world where people from different social and cultural backgrounds meet. We present a project developed in Brazil that used a traditional type of theatre and literature to engage the public in a health control program, and reflect on the potentialities of these formats to communicate science in our multicultural societies.

Candela, A. and F. P. Mariotto (2016). "Italian news coverage of radiation in the early decades of the twentieth century: A qualitative and quantitative analysis." Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 236-251.	This work uses a qualitative approach coupled with a quantitative software-based methodology to examine the Italian news media coverage of radiation in the early decades of the twentieth century. We analyze 80 news stories from two of the most influential Italian newspapers from that time: La Stampa (a daily newspaper) and La Domenica del Corriere (an Italian Sunday supplement). While much of previous research on media coverage of scientific topics was generally focused on present-day news, our work revolves around the ground-breaking discovery of X-rays and radioactivity at the dawn of the last century. Our analysis aims to identify journalistic frames in the news coverage of radiation that journalists might have used to emphasize the benefits (or the risks) of the new discoveries. We also hypothesize how this kind of news coverage might have influenced public perception of technological, commercial, and public health applications of the new scientific advancements.

Canfield, C., et al. (2017). "Perceptions of electricity-use communications: effects of information, format, and individual differences." Journal of Risk Research 20(9): 1132-1153.	Electricity bills could be an effective strategy for improving communications about consumers' electricity use and promoting electricity savings. However, quantitative communications about electricity use may be difficult to understand, especially for consumers with low energy literacy. Here, we build on the health communication and graph comprehension literature to inform electricity bill design, with the goal of improving understanding, preferences for the presented communication, and intentions to save electricity. In a survey-based experiment, each participant saw a hypothetical electricity bill for a family with relatively high electricity use, covering information about (a) historical use, (b) comparisons to neighbors, and (c) historical use with appliance breakdown. Participants saw all information types in one of three formats including (a) tables, (b) bar graphs, and (c) icon graphs. We report on three main findings. First, consumers understood each type of electricity-use information the most when it was presented in a table, perhaps because tables facilitate simple point reading. Second, preferences and intentions to save electricity were the strongest for the historical use information, independent of format. Third, individuals with lower energy literacy understood all information less. We discuss implications for designing utility bills that are understandable, perceived as useful, and motivate consumers to save energy.

Cantrill, J. G. (2010). "Measurement and Meaning in Environmental Communication Studies: A Response to Kassing, Johnson, Kloeber, and Wentzel." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(1): 22-36.	This essay represents an invited editorial response to Kassing, Johnson, Kloeber, and Wentzel's "Development and Validation of the Environmental Communication Scale'' in Environmental Communication: A Journal of Nature and Culture. Kassing and his associates use an apt review of the status of the environmental communication field as the basis for developing a protocol and instrument to measure the actual practice of engaging environmental subject matter in daily life. Although their factor analytic work is laudable in its intent, their approach to empirically exploring environmental communication in action further institutionalizes a number of conceptual and methodological shortcomings in our discipline. In particular, what researchers and respondents think constitutes "environmental'' content per se poses a significant barrier to using the proposed tool in applied settings. After critiquing the Kassing et al. work in terms of a number of issues related to the validity and reliability of their research, I conclude by suggesting that the research may provide a needed springboard for exploring the dynamics of interpersonal settings that mediate important dialog and action regarding the environment.

Cantrill, J. G. (2012). "Amplifiers on the Commons: Using Indicators to Foster Place-Based Sustainability Initiatives." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(1): 5-22.	As with watershed management or adaptive management plans, place-based sustainability initiatives are required to deal with complex and intertwining systems of social and ecological organization. One approach to fostering successful place-based initiatives features the development and use of sustainability indicators to promote community dialog, thereby amplifying the risks and opportunities of movement toward more environmentally benign practices. This article uses the author's personal experience as a methodological springboard for demonstrating how the development of sustainability indicators at a landscape-scale were incorporated into community-based planning in the Lake Superior Basin. An introduction to the science and practice of indicator development is followed by two case studies involving different spatial and temporal scales of community engagement in the development of place-based sustainability initiatives. The relative success of these examples leads to a suite of principles for using public participation as a means for stressing the opportunities occasioned by the sustainability imperative.

Cantrill, J. G. (2016). "On Seeing "Places" for What They Are, and Not What We Want Them to Be." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(4): 525-538.	For more than 40 years, scholars have been investigating psychological and communicative implications for the concept of place. During that time, a variety of methods have been employed, yet often without an obvious concern for the extent to which investigative conclusions match perceptions held by respondents who originally generate data the analyses rely upon. Although this distinction between actors' and informants' meanings for place is a subject most in the field of environmental communication encounter in their formative education, the actual practice of place-based research sometimes fails to adequately address the issue. Thus, the following commentary explores various threats to representational validity and suggests a number of areas we researchers should consider when conducting our place-based studies. In urging ourselves to rise to the challenge of self-skepticism, I hope my analysis provides a modestly novel take on empiricism regarding what places mean to those we study.

Cantrill, J. G., et al. (2007). "Exploring a Sense of Self-in-Place to Explain the Impulse for Urban Sprawl." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(2): 123-145.	Two studies were conducted to examine the perceptual dimensions underlying descriptions of residential choice related to urban sprawl. Study I compares interview data generated by residents living in two different locations. Dominant and shared themes characterizing respondents' "sense of self-in-place'' suggests that eight themes undergird depictions and perceptions of residential location. Study II extends these findings by focusing on individuals who have recently taken up residence on the urban fringe. Analysis reveals a seven-dimension schema for housing preferences in line with reasons respondents from the first study used for wanting to relocate. Findings are discussed in relationship to the management of urban sprawl, the nature of appeals directed at potential homebuyers, and the protection of natural resources.

Cao, Y. and W. L. McGill (2013). "LinkIT: A Ludic Elicitation Game for Eliciting Risk Perceptions." Risk Analysis 33(6): 1066-1082.	The mental models approach, a leading strategy to develop risk communications, involves a time- and labor-intensive interview process and a lengthy questionnaire to elicit group-level risk perceptions. We propose that a similarity ratings approach for structural knowledge elicitation can be adopted to assist the risk mental models approach. The LinkIT game, inspired by games with a purpose (GWAP) technology, is a ludic elicitation tool designed to elicit group understanding of the relations between risk factors in a more enjoyable and productive manner when compared to traditional approaches. That is, consistent with the idea of ludic elicitation, LinkIT was designed to make the elicitation process fun and enjoyable in the hopes of increasing participation and data quality in risk studies. Like the mental models approach, the group mental model obtained via the LinkIT game can hence be generated and represented in a form of influence diagrams. In order to examine the external validity of LinkIT, we conducted a study to compare its performance with respect to a more conventional questionnaire-driven approach. Data analysis results conclude that the two group mental models elicited from the two approaches are similar to an extent. Yet, LinkIT was more productive and enjoyable than the questionnaire. However, participants commented that the current game has some usability concerns. This presentation summarizes the design and evaluation of the LinkIT game and suggests areas for future work.

Caponecchia, C. (2012). "Relative Risk Perception for Terrorism: Implications for Preparedness and Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 32(9): 1524-1534.	Terrorism presents a significant risk that is often approached at public policy, infrastructure, or emergency management level. Public perceptions of the likelihood of terrorist events, and how this may relate to individual preparedness, are not always extensively examined. The tendency to think that negative events are less likely to happen to oneself than to the average person is known as optimism bias. Optimism bias is relevant to perceptions of terrorism, because it is thought to be related to a reduction in precaution use. Using an online survey of 164 participants, this study aimed to determine whether Sydney residents thought they had a lower likelihood of experiencing terrorist events than other Australians. Significant optimism bias was observed for witnessing terrorist events, but not for personally experiencing terrorist events. In addition, Sydney residents tended to think that terrorist attacks were more likely to occur in Sydney than another major Australian city in the next five years. At the same time, household and workplace preparedness for terrorism was quite low, as was awareness of emergency strategies in the central business district. Perceptions of high likelihood of terrorism happening in one's own city, yet low preparedness present a challenge for risk communication and emergency management strategies. The diversity of possible terrorist targets, and the simple plans that can moderate the effects of a disaster may need to be emphasized in future anti-terrorism initiatives.

Capurro, G., et al. (2015). "The Role of Media References During Public Deliberation Sessions." Science Communication 37(2): 240-269.	One intrinsic component of public engagement events on scientific issues that has been ignored is the role of media representations as informational inputs. This is despite inferences that media representations may support learning, reflection, misinformation, or polarization during an event. In this article, we examined the role of media references during a public deliberation on advanced biofuels, revealing how participants used them for various purposes, such as supporting their points of view, challenging others, and adding information to the discussion. However, media references steadily decreased over time, and our analysis revealed that they ultimately had a limited influence on deliberations.

Carbaugh, D. (2007). "Quoting "the Environment": Touchstones on Earth." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(1): 64-73.	This essay reflects upon the purposes of studying environmental communication by focusing on the variety of ways we quote "the environment'' in our studies. Special attention is given to balancing the twin objectives of speaking about "the environment,'' while also listening to what the environment says to us. In the process, we can serve a diversity of peoples, eco-parts and processes, through a language which can keep that diversity in view. How, then, can we assess movement, toward these ends? A proposal is made: We can gather Touchstones on EARTH into our studies, reminding ourselves that: Earth, "Environment,'' is doubly quoted: Both the word and the world speak; Action is engaged in words, environments, and their peoples; Responsible research takes nature, or earth, to be the measure of the good; Time helps temper enthusiasms, and allows enduring insights to be built; Heuristic explorations as these can create insights about communication and environment, while generating better ways of dwelling on earth.

Carbaugh, D. and T. Cerulli (2013). "Cultural Discourses of Dwelling: Investigating Environmental Communication as a Place-based Practice." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(1): 4-23.	In this essay, we contribute a response to intellectual and practical problems by presenting a perspective on environmental communication that is reflexively grounded in place. The perspective is designed to explore human relations with nature, while embracing cultural and linguistic variability. Our goals are to introduce a way to think through communication to places, and further to link that understanding to issues of engaged environmental action, to deeply seated notions of identity, and to the affective dimension of belonging that place-based communication often brings with it. Our way of doing this is to theorize and study cultural discourses of dwelling, which we explicate theoretically, then further illustrate by analyzing the discourse of adult-onset hunters. Our discussion concludes by exploring not only environmental speaking, but listening environmentally.

Carbaugh, D. and T. Cerulli (2013). "Cultural Discourses of Dwelling: Investigating Environmental Communication as a Place-based Practice (vol 7, pg 4, 2013)." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(1): 149-149.
	
Carcioppolo, N., et al. (2016). "In-group rationalizations of risk and indoor tanning: A textual analysis of an online forum." Public Understanding of Science 25(5): 627-636.	Unlike other health behaviors, there does not appear to be a strong relationship between perceived skin cancer risk and reduction or cessation of indoor tanning bed use. This study seeks to address this inconsistency by determining how indoor tanning bed users rationalize skin cancer risk with their tanning behavior. Qualitative textual analysis of indoor tanning message board posts (N=330) revealed varied perceptions of risk, including acknowledging the risk of indoor tanning; denying or downplaying risk, often citing perceived health benefits associated with tanning; blaming outside forces for cancer, such as lotion or genetics; and fatalistic beliefs about cancer. These results highlight the nuanced relationship between perceived skin cancer risk and indoor tanning bed use.

Carey, J. (2005). "Nanofuture: What's next for nanotechnology." Science Communication 27(2): 311-313.
	
Carey, W. D. (1998). "Excerpts from the foreword by William D. Carey in reflections on science and the media." Science Communication 20(2): 272-273.
	
Carlisle, J. E., et al. (2010). "The public's trust in scientific claims regarding offshore oil drilling." Public Understanding of Science 19(5): 514-527.	Our study examines how individuals decide which scientific claims and experts to believe when faced with competing claims regarding a policy issue. Using an experiment in a public opinion survey, we test the source content and credibility hypotheses to assess how much confidence people have in reports about scientific studies of the safety of offshore oil drilling along the California coast. The results show that message content has a substantial impact. People tend to accept reports of scientific studies that support their values and prior beliefs, but not studies that contradict them. Previous studies have shown that core values influence message acceptance. We find that core values and prior beliefs have independent effects on message acceptance. We also find that the sources of the claims make little difference. Finally, the public leans toward believing reports that oil drilling is riskier than previously believed.

Carlton, J. S. and S. K. Jacobson (2016). "Using Expert and Non-expert Models of Climate Change to Enhance Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(1): 1-24.	Climate change is a significant global risk that is predicted to be particularly devastating to coastal communities. Climate change adaptation and mitigation have been hindered by many factors, including psychological barriers, ineffective outreach and communication, and knowledge gaps. This qualitative study compares an expert model of climate change risks to county administrators' mental models of climate change and related coastal environmental hazards in Crystal River, Florida, USA. There were 24 common nodes in the expert and the combined non-expert models, mainly related to hurricanes, property damage, and economic concerns. Seven nodes mentioned by non-experts fit within, but were not a part of, the expert model, primarily related to ecological concerns about water quality. The findings suggest that effective climate outreach and communication could focus on compatible parts of the models and incorporate local concerns to find less controversial ways to discuss climate-related hazards.

Carmichael, D. A. (2010). "Ken Burns' The National Parks: America's Best Idea (2009): Missed Opportunities for Environmental Messages." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(4): 469-474.	Ken Burns, over the course of a long and celebrated career, has developed an effective and popular formula for his documentary films, and a comfortable relationship with the Public Broadcasting System. With such a convincing, accomplished style, his work has the opportunity to tackle ecological concerns in his latest series, but Burns chooses not to do so, offering no explicit lessons to apply to current problems. While stressing the importance of the people's parks, ecological debates on land use for future citizen-owners are minimized; the conflict of conservation versus preservation policies is barely differentiated. With the skill and reputation of Burns, his researchers, and his production team, there is a singular opportunity for their films to address ecological issues, creating productive conversation using America as a microcosm of the larger global issues faced today. Nostalgia and national pride are useful, but those attributes should be channeled to look to the future.

Carr, A. (2006). "Heal the ocean: Solutions for saving our seas." Science Communication 27(4): 570-573.
	
Carr, A. E., et al. (2017). "Knowing Me, Knowing You." Science Communication 39(6): 771-781.	To engage effectively, it is important to understand audiences' values, attitudes, and background knowledge. Given that researchers are increasingly expected to be responsible for public engagement, we conducted a small study into their perceptions of publics' scientific knowledge. Our data show researchers feel public engagement is important and their particular field is not difficult to understand. However, our participants appeared to rely on guesswork when estimating public knowledge and to underestimate positive public attitudes toward science. We suggest if researchers develop a more accurate sense of audiences' knowledge and attitudes they will be able to engage more effectively and efficiently.

Carr, A. F. (2006). "Nature's keepers: The remarkable story of how the nature conservancy became the largest environmental organization in the world." Science Communication 28(1): 150-153.
	
Carrion, M. L. (2018). ""You need to do your research": Vaccines, contestable science, and maternal epistemology." Public Understanding of Science 27(3): 310-324.	Individuals who refuse vaccines are often painted as anti-science or ill-informed. However, drawing from interviews with 50 mothers who refused one or more vaccines (n=50), results from this study suggest that such depictions lack nuance and may detract from the ability of communication efforts to effectively address concerns. In particular, participants' explanations for vaccine refusal relied on paradoxical arguments about science and expertise. On one hand, participants defended the ideal of science but criticized existing research for failing to meet requisite standards. On the other hand, they suggested that maternal experience could supplant the ways of knowing that give rise to such claims. Collectively, these explanations reflected critical, postmodern, and feminist perspectives on science and knowledge production and can help explain the persistence of the controversy surrounding childhood vaccines in the United States.

Carrozzino-Lyon, A. L., et al. (2014). "Co-orientation of State Wildlife Agency Personnel and Wildlife Management Area Stakeholders Regarding Wildlife Habitat Management Activities in Virginia." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(4): 508-528.	Natural resource managers frequently make decisions in the public interest, yet research suggests managers often hold values and attitudes that differ from those of their stakeholders. Applying the co-orientation theory of communication, we contrasted beliefs of Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries managers (n = 77) with those of recreational users (n = 726) of Virginia's wildlife management areas (WMAs). Although managers and users both expressed support for many of the same land management practices, managers generally expressed stronger support. Managers also more accurately predicted WMA users' beliefs on land management, compared to users' predictions of managers' beliefs. Managers and WMA users held different views about timber harvesting, which suggests it is an area with high potential for controversy and needs improved communication efforts. Frequency-based and statistical co-orientation analysis yielded different, and potentially misleading, results; thus, policy-makers should use caution when interpreting communicative situations and designing subsequent public relations efforts.

Carson, L. (2014). "Zoo visitors' understanding of terms denoting research activity." Public Understanding of Science 23(5): 547-556.	Zoos have increasingly sought to justify their existence by reference to a scientific role particularly in the domains of animal welfare and conservation. Given recent initiatives by the UK government to foster public engagement with science, it is timely to investigate public attitudes towards primary research activity by zoos. This study reports the views of 83 visitors to Edinburgh Zoo. Within certain items in a structured interview noun terms denoting research activity were manipulated ("research" versus "studies") as was their qualification (adjective "scientific" present or absent before the noun term). "Research" was associated with a restricted and negative perception of investigatory activity. This effect was intensified when the noun term was preceded by "scientific". It is concluded that there is a continuing need to challenge public perceptions, particularly of the phrase "scientific research"; that in the meantime zoos should perhaps exercise caution when using it in relation to their activities.

Carvalho, A. (2007). "Ideological cultures and media discourses on scientific knowledge: re-reading news on climate change." Public Understanding of Science 16(2): 223-243.	Focusing on the representation of climate change in the British '' quality press,'' this article argues that the discursive (re)construction of scientific claims in the media is strongly entangled with ideological standpoints. Understood here as a set of ideas and values that legitimate a program of action vis-a-vis a given social and political order, ideology works as a powerful selection device in deciding what is scientific news, i.e. what the relevant '' facts '' are, and who are the authorized '' agents of definition '' of science matters. The representation of scientific knowledge has important implications for evaluating political programs and assessing the responsibility of both governments and the public in addressing climate change.

Carvalho, A. and J. Burgess (2005). "Cultural circuits of climate change in UK broadsheet newspapers, 1985-2003." Risk Analysis 25(6): 1457-1469.	This article argues for a cultural perspective to be brought to bear on studies of climate change risk perception. Developing the "circuit of culture" model, the article maintains that the producers and consumers of media texts are jointly engaged in dynamic, meaning-making activities that are context-specific and that change over time. A critical discourse analysis of climate change based on a database of newspaper reports from three U.K. broadsheet papers over the period 1985-2003 is presented. This empirical study identifies three distinct circuits of climate change-1985-1990. 1991-1996. 1997-2003-which are characterized by different framings of risks associated with climate change. The article concludes that there is evidence of social learning as actors build on their experiences in relation to climate change science and policy making. Two important factors in shaping the U.K.'s broadsheet newspapers' discourse on "dangerous" climate change emerge as the agency of top political figures and the dominant ideological standpoints in different newspapers.

Carvalho, A. and T. R. Peterson (2009). "Discursive Constructions of Climate Change: Practices of Encoding and Decoding INTRODUCTION." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(2): 131-133.
	
Carvalho, A., et al. (2017). "Communication Practices and Political Engagement with Climate Change: A Research Agenda." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(1): 122-135.	In this article, we call for a refocusing of research on citizens' political engagement with climate change. In doing so, we argue that communication practices not only help create the conditions for political engagement but they also comprise the modes of such engagement. Our argument proceeds in four steps. First, we review the literature on public engagement with climate change, concluding that there is a lack of attention to issues regarding the political. Consequently, we make the case for a refocusing of research on political engagement. Second, we explain how the notion of political subjectivity helps us to understand the relation between communication practices and engagement with the politics of climate change. Third, we discuss examples of dominant communication practices that constrain citizen political engagement by depoliticizing climate change, and alternative communication practices that have the potential to politicize. We end by outlining the many research questions that relate to the study of political engagement with climate change.

Carver, R. B., et al. (2013). "Quantitative Frame Analysis of How the Gene Concept Is Presented in Tabloid and Elite Newspapers." Science Communication 35(4): 449-475.	Tabloid and elite newspapers differ in journalistic style and address different socioeconomic segments of society. Few studies have systematically investigated how these differences influence science communication, and the issue of genetics is particularly relevant. In this study, we performed a quantitative frame analysis of genetic discourse in 12 national newspapers that address different audiences. We found that tabloid and elite newspapers use different frames when communicating the gene concept. The differences were related to the use of expert writers and choice of topics, and we discuss how framing of the gene concept is related to the newspapers' editorial profiles.

Casman, E. A. and B. Fischhoff (2008). "Risk communication planning for the aftermath of a plague bioattack." Risk Analysis 28(5): 1327-1342.	We create an influence diagram of how a plague bioattack could unfold and then use it to identify factors shaping infection risks in many possible scenarios. The influence diagram and associated explanations provide a compact reference that allows risk communicators to identify key messages for pre-event preparation and testing. It can also be used to answer specific questions in whatever unique situations arise, considering both the conditions of the attack and the properties of the attacked populations. The influence diagram allows a quick, visual check of the factors that must be covered when evaluating audience information needs. The documentation provides content for explaining the resultant advice. We show how these tools can help in preparing for crises and responding to them.

Casman, E. A., et al. (2000). "An integrated risk model of a drinking-water-borne cryptosporidiosis outbreak." Risk Analysis 20(4): 495-511.	A dynamic risk model is developed to track the occurrence and evolution of a drinking-waterborne cryptosporidiosis outbreak. The model characterizes and integrates the various environmental, medical, institutional, and behavioral factors that determine outbreak development and outcome. These include contaminant delivery and detection, water treatment efficiency, the timing of interventions, and the choices that people make when confronted with a known or suspected risk. The model is used to evaluate the efficacy of alternative strategies for improving risk management during an outbreak, and to identify priorities for improvements in the public health system. Modeling results indicate that the greatest opportunity for curtailing a large outbreak is realized by minimizing delays in identifying and correcting a drinking-water problem. If these delays cannot be reduced, then the effectiveness of risk communication in preemptively reaching and persuading target populations to avoid exposure becomes important.

Cassidy, A. (2005). "Popular evolutionary psychology in the UK: an unusual case of science in the media?" Public Understanding of Science 14(2): 115-141.	This paper presents findings from quantitative analyses of UK press and print media coverage of evolutionary psychology during the 1990s. It argues that evolutionary psychology presents an interesting case for studies of science in the media in several different ways. First, press coverage of evolutionary psychology was found to be closely linked with the publications of popular books on the subject. Secondly, when compared to coverage of other subjects, a higher proportion of academics and authors wrote about evolutionary psychology in the press, contributing to the development of a scientific controversy in the public domain. Finally, it was found that evolutionary psychology coverage appeared in different areas of the daily press, and was rarely written about by specialist science journalists. The possible reasons for these features are then explored, including the boom in popular science publishing during the 1990s, evolutionary psychology's status as a new subject of study and discussion, and the nature of the subject itself as theoretically based and with a human, "everyday" subject matter.

Cassidy, A. (2006). "Evolutionary psychology as public science and boundary work." Public Understanding of Science 15(2): 175-205.	This paper explores the phenomena of public scientific debates, where scientific controversies are argued out in public fora such as the mass media, using the case of popular evolutionary psychology in the UK of the 1990s. An earlier quantitative analysis of the UK press coverage of the subject (Cassidy, 2005) suggested that academics associated with evolutionary psychology had been unusually active in the media at that time, particularly in association with the publication of popular science books on the subject. Previous research by Turner, by Gieryn, and by Bucchi has established the relationship between such appeals to the public domain and the establishment of scientific legitimacy and academic disciplinary boundaries. Following this work, I argue here that popular science has, in this case, provided a creative space for scientists, outside of the constraints of ordinary academic discourse, allowing them to reach across scientific boundaries in order to claim expertise in the study of human beings.

Cassidy, A. and B. Mills (2012). ""Fox Tots Attack Shock": Urban Foxes, Mass Media and Boundary-Breaching." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(4): 494-511.	On June 7, 2010, UK media outlets reported that 9-month-old twins living in East London had been rushed to hospital following a suspected fox attack: the babies had been seriously injured. This story received sustained coverage for several months, and became the focus of debate over the behavior of urban foxes, and how they and humans should coexist. Using textual analysis to unravel the various discourses surrounding this moment, this paper discusses how the incident became such a prominent media event. Alongside the contexts of the silly season and a period of political transition, we argue that this incident breached a series of spatial boundaries that many societies draw between people and the natural world, from the safest space of a child's cot, to the categorizations made about animals themselves. We discuss the consequences of such boundary breaches, pointing to a deep confusion over the assignment of responsibility for, and expertise about, the figure of the urban fox.

Castillo, A. (2000). "Communication and utilization of science in developing countries - The case of Mexican ecology." Science Communication 22(1): 46-72.	Ecology has a major responsibility in solving environmental problems In Mexico, scientific institutions need to contribute more to the practical use of their research findings, especially with regard to the rural management of ecosystems. Based on the framework of the Ecological Information System, two surveys were conducted among ecologists and nongovernmental organizations in Mexico. It was found that ecology has a great deal to contribute to environmental problem solving and that nongovernmental organizations function as links between science and rural producers, such as agriculturists cattle ranchers,forest extractors, hunters, gatherers, and fishermen, although these interactions should be strengthened Suggestions are made for the design of new forms of communicating science within scientific institutions that contribute to the utilization of scientific results.

Castro, P. and C. Mouro (2016). ""Imagining ourselves' as participating publics: An example from biodiversity conservation." Public Understanding of Science 25(7): 858-872.	This article examines how residents in Natura 2000 sites in Southern Portugal imagine themselves' as publics participating in biodiversity conservation. Through nine focus groups (n=49) it seeks to understand whether and how these self-imaginations reproduce and/or resist experts' highly shared, hegemonic, representations across two dimensions: the epistemic and the normative. Analysis of the groups' discussions shows that (1) reproduction is clearer in the normative dimension, conveyed through discursive formats that place people' as its actor and exempt the Ego from it; (2) resistance is clearer in the epistemic dimension, relying on vibrant claims of local knowledge, yet it can be maintained as hidden discourse; (3) the forms of reproduction or resistance that emerged were hybrid ones; and (4) self-imaginations are more fragmented and negative in normative matters and more unified and positive in epistemic matters. We discuss how these findings help understand how hegemonic representations are maintained/resisted in enduring public-expert relations.

Catellier, J. R. A. and Z. J. Yang (2012). "Trust and affect: how do they impact risk information seeking in a health context?" Journal of Risk Research 15(8): 897-911.	This study examines college students' intention to seek information about the H1N1 flu vaccine. We specifically focused on the relationship between trust and affect and whether they work together to influence risk information seeking. Results indicated that positive affect moderated the relationship between trust and information seeking, but negative affect did not. While both positive affect and negative affect influenced risk information seeking, when combined with trust, only positive affect remained as a significant predictor. These results suggest that by understanding the role that trust and affect play, medical professionals and disease control agencies can tailor their communication efforts to increase an individual's intention to seek information about preventive measures. Specifically, maintaining the public's trust and positive feelings toward these entities is key to successful communication about prevention measures such as vaccination.

Caudill, E. (2003). "Evolutionary theory and Victorian culture." Public Understanding of Science 12(2): 215-216.
	
Caulfield, T. (2009). "Future Bioethics: Overcoming Taboos, Myths, and Dogma." Science Communication 30(4): 547-548.
	
Caws, P. (1998). "Communication lag." Science Communication 20(1): 14-21.	The unevenness of knowledge distribution in modem society has profound social and political implications. Through more careful attention to contextualization, translation, and self-assessment of specialized knowledge such as science, audiences might be assisted to acquire the type of knowledge which is necessary for them to become not just potentially informed but actually knowledgeable on such subjects.

Chakraborty, S. (2013). "Part I: the role of trust in patient noncompliance: a qualitative case study of users of statins for the chronic treatment of high-cholesterol in New York City." Journal of Risk Research 16(1): 97-112.	Current reports state that 5070% of American patients who have been prescribed chronic drug therapies do not take their medications in accordance with their physician's instructions. This not only leads to poorer end-prognoses, but can add up to 100 billion dollars in terms of public health costs stemming from more rapid onsets of disease, higher rates of hospitalizations, and lost productivity. The unresolved magnitude of such adverse outcomes merits a deeper inspection into the risk of noncompliance, particularly in relation to the current climate of social distrust. This study applied the mental models approach for the purpose of understanding lay perceptions in relation to existing scientific information on the risk of noncompliance. In accordance with the approach, 30 participants were interviewed and 200 questionnaires were administered in New York City to eligible users of statins for the chronic treatment of high cholesterol. This original research reports the primary findings from the 30 qualitative in-depth interviews. Several themes of distrust in various actors in the healthcare system were identified during the interviews and a suggested correlation between distrust and noncompliance emerged. The results of these findings should be taken into consideration for any future efforts at addressing risks associated with patient noncompliance.

Chakraborty, S. (2013). "Part II: the role of trust in patient noncompliance: a quantitative case study of users of statins for the chronic treatment of high cholesterol in New York City." Journal of Risk Research 16(1): 113-129.	It is widely known that increased perceived risk associated with a drug, even if in a completely different class of medicines, may influence patient compliance to their treatment regimes. Media reports of alleged scandals and controversies associated with certain prescription drugs, such as Vioxx, are easily accessible in public recollections and may influence attitudes towards other drugs. Reports of increased noncompliance following such media reports contribute to the existing 5070% of the US adult population of chronic prescription users who do not take medications in accordance with physicians' instructions. This can have impacts ranging from faster onset of disease for the noncompliant individual to wider impacts for society as a whole, such as increased federal spending on social health funds. The rates of noncompliance described, and their alleged relationship with increased public suspicions, suggest a role for trust in shaping compliance behavior in patients. This study applied the mental models approach for the purpose of understanding lay perceptions in relation to existing scientific information on the risk of noncompliance. In accordance with the approach, 30 participants were interviewed, and 200 questionnaires were administered in New York City to eligible users of statins for the chronic treatment of high cholesterol. This original research reports the primary findings from the 200 confirmatory questionnaires in relation to the qualitative interview findings from the previous article. The themes of distrust in various actors in the health care system identified during the interviews were supported statistically through the questionnaires, and a statistically significant correlation between distrust and noncompliance was established. The results of this research should be taken into consideration for any future efforts at addressing risks associated with patient noncompliance.

Champ, J. G., et al. (2013). "An On-line Narrative of Colorado Wilderness: Self-in-"Cybernetic Space"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(1): 131-145.	The authors consider a new frontier for the study of wilderness recreation experience, an increasingly common form of blog known as online trip reports. Analysis and discussion in this article is the result of collecting and reflecting upon more than 300 trip reports focused on wilderness areas in the state of Colorado. The authors present a case study of one trip report that demonstrates the intersection of self, narrative, wilderness, and new media technology. While the practice of trip reporting is rather uniform across the cases, the analysis of a single exemplary case reveals that the narrative performance can provide a very personal statement of self and the relationship to wilderness. As Internet presence grows exponentially, online trip reports are expected to play a greater and greater role in the experience of wilderness in cybernetic space.

Chan, E. (2018). "Are the religious suspicious of science? Investigating religiosity, religious context, and orientations towards science." Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 967-984.	Are the religious suspicious of science? Drawing on data from 52 nations in the World Values Survey (wave 6) (N = 58,474), I utilize multilevel models to examine the relationship between religiosity, religious context, and five different orientations towards science: confidence in science, trust in scientific authority under conditions of conflict with religion, faith in science, views on the moral effects of science, and interest in scientific knowledge. Results show that while religiosity is on average negatively associated with the five outcomes, the relationship between religiosity and orientations towards science varies by country such that religiosity is sometimes positively associated with the different outcomes. Religiosity is only consistently negatively associated with trust in scientific authority in all countries and with all orientations towards science in western countries. Finally, differences in orientations towards science also exist across country religious contexts, with countries dominated by the unaffiliated having more positive orientations towards science.

Chang, C. C. (2015). "Motivated Processing: How People Perceive News Covering Novel or Contradictory Health Research Findings." Science Communication 37(5): 602-634.	This article examines responses to news stories that cover novel (vs. familiar) or contradictory (vs. one-sided) health research findings. Drawing on motivated reasoning and uncertainty management literature, this article proposes that novel and contradictory health research news stories arouse uncertainty and confusion and thus trigger motivated reasoning. People discount the credibility of the target news and express less willingness to adopt the advocated behaviors. In addition, people devalue health research by strengthening their beliefs that scientific research is uncertain, which lowers their attitudes toward health research. A large telephone survey of the general public and two experiments test these predictions.

Chang, H. (2007). "Predicting the weather: Victorians and the science of meteorology." Public Understanding of Science 16(4): 507-508.
	
Chang, J. H., et al. (2018). "The gap in scientific knowledge and role of science communication in South Korea." Public Understanding of Science 27(5): 578-593.	Using data from a national survey of South Koreans, this study explores the role of science communication in enhancing three different forms of scientific knowledge (factual, procedural, and subjective). We first assess learning effects, looking at the extent to which citizens learn science from different channels of communication (interpersonal discussions, traditional newspapers, television, online newspapers, and social media). We then look into the knowledge gap hypothesis, investigating how different communication channels can either widen or narrow the gap in knowledge between social classes. Television was found to function as a knowledge leveler, narrowing the gap between highly and less educated South Koreans. The role of online newspapers in science learning is pronounced in our research. Reading newspapers online indicated a positive relationship to all three measures of knowledge. Contrary to the knowledge-leveling effect of television viewing, reading online newspapers was found to increase, rather than decrease, the gap in knowledge. Implications of our findings are discussed in detail.

Chang, S. E., et al. (2014). "Toward Disaster-Resilient Cities: Characterizing Resilience of Infrastructure Systems with Expert Judgments." Risk Analysis 34(3): 416-434.	Resilient infrastructure systems are essential for cities to withstand and rapidly recover from natural and human-induced disasters, yet electric power, transportation, and other infrastructures are highly vulnerable and interdependent. New approaches for characterizing the resilience of sets of infrastructure systems are urgently needed, at community and regional scales. This article develops a practical approach for analysts to characterize a community's infrastructure vulnerability and resilience in disasters. It addresses key challenges of incomplete incentives, partial information, and few opportunities for learning. The approach is demonstrated for Metro Vancouver, Canada, in the context of earthquake and flood risk. The methodological approach is practical and focuses on potential disruptions to infrastructure services. In spirit, it resembles probability elicitation with multiple experts; however, it elicits disruption and recovery over time, rather than uncertainties regarding system function at a given point in time. It develops information on regional infrastructure risk and engages infrastructure organizations in the process. Information sharing, iteration, and learning among the participants provide the basis for more informed estimates of infrastructure system robustness and recovery that incorporate the potential for interdependent failures after an extreme event. Results demonstrate the vital importance of cross-sectoral communication to develop shared understanding of regional infrastructure disruption in disasters. For Vancouver, specific results indicate that in a hypothetical M7.3 earthquake, virtually all infrastructures would suffer severe disruption of service in the immediate aftermath, with many experiencing moderate disruption two weeks afterward. Electric power, land transportation, and telecommunications are identified as core infrastructure sectors.

Charnley, F., et al. (2012). "Engaging schools in the science of low-energy buildings." Public Understanding of Science 21(7): 875-890.	This article explores the relationship between the previous UK government's initiative to rebuild and renew secondary schools, and the requirement for improved education for sustainable development in the UK. The documented research utilized a number of mechanisms to engage with pupils in Leicester city schools to increase their awareness, knowledge and understanding of the science and engineering associated with the design and operation of low-energy school buildings. Workshops, discussions with energy and sustainable development experts and inspirational visits to existing low-energy buildings were employed to develop an appreciation for the importance of energy efficiency and best design practice. The results demonstrate an increase in pupils' knowledge and understanding of low-energy school design and additionally a rise in those pupils who are interested in science and would consider it as a career option.

Chatterjee, C. and P. Mozumder (2014). "Understanding Household Preferences for Hurricane Risk Mitigation Information: Evidence from Survey Responses." Risk Analysis 34(6): 984-996.	Risk information is critical to adopting mitigation measures, and seeking risk information is influenced by a variety of factors. An essential component of the recently adopted My Safe Florida Home (MSFH) program by the State of Florida is to provide homeowners with pertinent risk information to facilitate hurricane risk mitigation activities. We develop an analytical framework to understand household preferences for hurricane risk mitigation information through allowing an intensive home inspection. An empirical analysis is used to identify major drivers of household preferences to receive personalized information regarding recommended hurricane risk mitigation measures. A variety of empirical specifications show that households with home insurance, prior experience with damages, and with a higher sense of vulnerability to be affected by hurricanes are more likely to allow inspection to seek information. However, households with more members living in the home and households who live in manufactured/mobile homes are less likely to allow inspection. While findings imply MSFH program's ability to link incentives offered by private and public agencies in promoting mitigation, households that face a disproportionately higher level of risk can get priority to make the program more effective.

Chen, F. J., et al. (2009). "An analysis of the Public Scientific Literacy study in China." Public Understanding of Science 18(5): 607-616.	In March 2006, the State Council of the People's Republic of China issued The Outline of the Action Plan for Improving Scientific Literacy for All (From 2006-2010 and then 2010-2020) (the Scientific Literacy Outline), in which the official notion of scientific literacy named "Public Scientific Literacy in China" was put forward for the first time in the history of China. Subsequently, the program of "Study on Measurement Indicators of Scientific Literacy of Chinese Citizens and its Demonstration" was funded by the China Association for Science and Technology the following September. However, the notion as well as its measurement indicators still need more clarification. After reviewing some relevant literature and introducing the historical background to the concept of "Public Scientific Literacy in China" along with a detailed interpretation of its connotation, the authors do a closer examination of the measurement indicators established by the Research and Development Center for Science Communication at the University of Science and Technology of China, based on a systematical analysis of the sample surveys.

Chen, M. F. (2008). "Consumer Trust in Food Safety-A Multidisciplinary Approach and Empirical Evidence from Taiwan." Risk Analysis 28(6): 1553-1569.	Food scandals that happened in recent years have increased consumers' risk perceptions of foods and decreased their trust in food safety. A better understanding of the consumer trust in food safety can improve the effectiveness of public policy and allow the development of the best practice in risk communication. This study proposes a research framework from a psychometric approach to investigate the relationships between the consumer's trust in food safety and the antecedents of risk perceptions of foods based on a reflexive modernization perspective and a cultural theory perspective in the hope of benefiting the future empirical study. The empirical results from a structural equation modeling analysis of Taiwan as a case in point reveal that this research framework based on a multidisciplinary perspective can be a valuable tool for a growing understanding of consumer trust in food safety. The antecedents in the psychometric research framework comprised reflexive modernization factors and cultural theory factors have all been supported in this study except the consumer's perception of pessimism toward food. Moreover, the empirical results of repeated measures analysis of variance give more detailed information to grasp empirical implications and to provide some suggestions to the actors and institutions involved in the food supply chain in Taiwan.

Chen, N. T. N. (2015). "Predicting Vaccination Intention and Benefit and Risk Perceptions: The Incorporation of Affect, Trust, and Television Influence in a Dual-Mode Model." Risk Analysis 35(7): 1268-1280.	Major health behavior change models tend to consider health decisions as primarily resulting from a systematic appraisal of relevant beliefs, such as the perceived benefits and risks of a pharmacological intervention. Drawing on research from the disciplines of risk management, communication, and psychology, this study proposed the inclusion of a heuristic route in established theory and tested the direction of influence between heuristic and systematic process variables. Affect and social trust were included as key heuristics in the proposed dual-mode framework of health decision making. Furthermore, exposure to health-related coverage on television was considered potentially influential over both heuristic and systematic process variables. To test this framework, data were collected from a national probability sample of 584 adults in the United States in 2012 regarding their decision to vaccinate against a hypothetical avian flu. The results provided some support for the bidirectional influence between heuristic and systematic processing. Affect toward flu vaccination and trust in the Food and Drug Administration were found to be powerful predictors of vaccination intention, enhancing intention both directly and indirectly via certain systematic process variables. The direction of influence between perceived susceptibility and severity, on the one hand, and affect, on the other, is less clear, suggesting the need for further research. Contrary to the opinion of media critics, exposure to televised health coverage was negatively associated with the perceived risks of vaccination. Results from this study carry theoretical and practical implications, and applying this model to the acceptance of different health interventions constitutes an area for future inquiries.

Chen, S. B. and S. Gunster (2016). ""Ethereal Carbon": legitimizing liquefied natural gas in British Columbia." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(3): 305-321.	This paper examines the provincial government of British Columbia's recent proposal of building a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) industry, in which natural gas extracted through hydraulic fracturing will be liquefied and then exported to Asian markets. Drawing upon the growing literature on energopower, petro-state, and petro-culture, selected texts and images from "LNG in BC"-the project's official branding website-were analyzed through a multimodal critical discourse analysis. The results reveal two primary strategies of legitimation: the first emphasizes the economic benefits of LNG development in terms of employment and taxation revenues; the second defines LNG as a means of strengthening B.C.'s environmental leadership. The second narrative depends heavily upon the symbolic values of natural gas, contrasting its "clean" appearance (as a colorless and odorless gas) with the material density and "toxic sensuality" of other "dirty" fossil fuels (such as coal, oil, and bitumen). The website also presents a linear and simplified "storyline" of the generation of LNG which emphasizes the simple, "clean" process of liquefaction to distract attention from the ecological and health risks of hydraulic fracturing.

Chen, Y. W., et al. (2012). "Challenges and Benefits of Community-Based Participatory Research for Environmental Justice: A Case of Collaboratively Examining Ecocultural Struggles." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(3): 403-421.	This essay features critical reflections on a process of generative community-based participatory research (CBPR) in which communication researchers collaborated with environmental organizations, cultural advocacy groups, and community participants to identify better ways of addressing ecocultural struggles. In response to Depoe's call to promote scholar-practitioner interactions, the authors make explicit challenges and benefits implicated in employing a CBPR process to promote environmental justice. This critical reflective analysis centers on three key issues related to engaging in CBPR-oriented praxis-based research. The findings challenge the researcher's role as the initiator of a community-university collaborative project, broaden the notion of community in CBPR, and promote multiple analytical perspectives that can speak to diverse partner-stakeholders. The authors conclude with a conceptualization of how CBPR can aid in promoting environmental justice as both a goal and a process and offer practical recommendations.

Chepngeno-Langat, G., et al. (2012). "Concern About HIV and AIDS Among Older People in the Slums of Nairobi, Kenya." Risk Analysis 32(9): 1512-1523.	The article explores the way that social networks and personal experiences affect perceived HIV-related concerns among people aged 50 years or older living in a low resource neighborhood with high HIV prevalence in Nairobi, Kenya. Multiple logistic regression is used to model the association between the reporting of an HIV-related concern and individual-level characteristics, personal experiences, and social interaction. The main concerns regarding HIV reported by older people in the study included caring for orphaned children (65%), caring for people with AIDS (48%), and losing material and social support from adult children (36%). Interestingly, 38% of respondents voiced concerns about HIV infection among older people. Respondents who had been individually affected by HIV and AIDS, who were part of a wide social network, or who participated in community activities were frequently more likely to report a concern. The findings highlight the significance of the role of social interaction and social networks in the diffusion of information and knowledge. These findings have implications for HIV and AIDS policy and programs, highlighting the potential for social networks and community-level interventions to educate and increase awareness about HIV and AIDS among older people. Community leaders can make good peer educators and communication agents for HIV/AIDS campaigns. Additionally, the recognized high level of personal vulnerability to HIV infection among older people suggests the need for targeted sexual behavior change programs among this often neglected group.

Cherney, A., et al. (2013). "Research Utilization in the Social Sciences: A Comparison of Five Academic Disciplines in Australia." Science Communication 35(6): 780-809.	Social science disciplines generate diverse forms of research utilization, given the various contexts in which disciplinary knowledge is produced and translated for the fields of policy and practice. We examine this issue from the perspective of academic researchers in the social sciences across education, economics, sociology, political science, and psychology. We use survey data from a study of university-based social science researchers in Australia to examine factors that influence perceptions of the policy uptake of social research. Our results show that disciplinary and methodological context matters when it comes to understanding the translation, dissemination, and utilization of academic social research.

Cherry, C., et al. (2015). "Media discourses of low carbon housing: The marginalisation of social and behavioural dimensions within the British broadsheet press." Public Understanding of Science 24(3): 302-310.	Decarbonising housing is a key UK government policy to mitigate climate change. Using discourse analysis, we assess how low carbon housing is portrayed within British broadsheet media. Three distinct storylines were identified. Dominating the discourse, Zero carbon housing promotes new-build, low carbon houses as offering high technology solutions to the climate problem. Retrofitting homes emphasises the need to reduce emissions within existing housing, tackling both climate change and rising fuel prices. A more marginal discourse, Sustainable living, frames low carbon houses as related to individual identities and off-grid' or greener lifestyles. Our analysis demonstrates that technical and economic paradigms dominate media discourse on low carbon housing, marginalising social and behavioural aspects.

Cherryman, S. J., et al. (2008). "An exploratory study of public opinions on the use of hydrogen energy in Wales." Public Understanding of Science 17(3): 397-410.	The introduction of hydrogen into the energy market is being pursued by governments around the world in an effort to abate climate change, provide security of supply and reduce air pollution. While technological aspects are well researched, the social aspects of the transition are not. The public's attitude and perception of hydrogen energy will be of great importance as we move closer to the implementation of the technologies. Using two focus groups this exploratory study aims to identify Welsh public opinions on the production and end use of hydrogen energy. Gender differences were apparent, as women were generally more accepting of hydrogen technology. The main concerns were safety ( both of use and in production) and cost. Cost remained paramount, even in the light of environmental considerations. The groups' attitude to the development of hydrogen technology was supportive but with the caveat that price and safety should not be compromised.

Chess, C. (2001). "Organizational theory and the stages of risk communication." Risk Analysis 21(1): 179-188.	The evolution of risk communication has been described as a series of communication strategies. This article suggests that organizational theory provides another dimension to understanding the evolution of risk communication, and that risk communication can be seen as an organizational adaptation of chemical manufacturers to external pressure. Following the tragedy in Bhopal the chemical manufacturing sector's loss of legitimacy led to destabilization of its authority and to increased uncertainty in its external environment. Risk communication was one means to increase legitimacy, thereby decreasing uncertainty and potential impact on resources. However, although risk communication may evolve from crises of legitimacy, the concept of "isomorphism"-conformance to norms within a corporate sector-predicts this need not be the case.

Chess, C., et al. (1995). "Improving Risk Communication in Government - Research Priorities." Risk Analysis 15(2): 127-135.	Despite the increased interest in risk communication among government agencies, there is evidence that agencies' risk communication practices lag.  We conducted a study to explore which risk communication research would be most important to improve government agencies' risk communication practices.  Qualitative interviews and a survey of 145 risk communication experts based in academic institutions and government agencies explored how important research on each of 48 topics would be to improving agencies' risk communication efforts.  Respondents identified topics within three areas as priorities for further research:  1) involving communities in agency decision-making; 2) communicating with communities of different races, ethnic backgrounds, and incomes; and 3) evaluating risk communication.  Both practitioners and researchers responded to additional statements about agencies' risk communication practices with reservations about staff and managers' commitment to effective communication about environmental issues.  We discuss the implications of these findings.

Chess, C., et al. (1995). "Results of a National Symposium on Risk Communication - Next Steps for Government Agencies." Risk Analysis 15(2): 115-125.	A national symposium of risk communication practitioners and researchers was held in 1994 to discuss next steps to improve government agencies' risk communication practices.  The symposium focused on three issues which a survey of researchers and practitioners indicated were priorities for risk communication research:  integrating outside concerns into agency decision-making; communicating with communities of different races, ethnic backgrounds and incomes; and evaluation of risk communication.  There are indications that the working assumptions underlying these issues are shifting in several distinctive ways.  For example, a shift from simply communicating risk to forging partnerships with communities was clearly evident throughout the symposium.  Communicating with different social, ethnic, and racial groups gained recognition as a vital component of the risk communication research agenda.  Agencies themselves should be the subject of study, according to many symposium participants who were concerned less about the so-called irrationality of the public and more about the reluctance of agencies to encourage risk communication.

Chess, C., et al. (1992). "The Organizational Links between Risk Communication and Risk Management - the Case of Sybron-Chemicals-Inc." Risk Analysis 12(3): 431-438.	The risk communication literature is rife with prescriptions about how organizations should interact with various publics. However, little attention has been paid to the organizational adjustments that may be necessary for corporations to heed this advice. The primary question we explore is: What do companies do internally to increase the effectiveness of their communication externally? In this article, we explore relationships between risk management and risk communication and then suggest the organizational factors that may link the two. We present five propositions dealing with relationships between risk communication and risk management derived from an in-depth case study of an exemplary risk communication program. We discuss the implications of this case study for further research.

Chew, F., et al. (2006). "Can health journalists bridge the state-of-the-science gap in mammography guidelines?" Science Communication 27(3): 331-351.	Two sequential National Cancer Institute surveys showed that more women perceived forty years rather than fifty years to be the right age for mammography screening, despite the lack of scientific evidence for this position. News media coverage of mammography guidelines regarding women in their forties was compared with the survey perceptions. Women's understanding of forty years as the right age did not correspond to the proportion of topical news content. Qualitative interviews with eight magazine health journalists illustrated the emphasis on practical recommendations over scietific knowledge. Understanding scientific evidence would enhance health reporting to create an informed public.

Chia, A. (1998). "Seeing and believing - The variety of scientists' responses to contrary data." Science Communication 19(4): 366-391.	Scientists rely on data and evidence to construct scientific knowledge or justified beliefs about the world. How are data and scientific beliefs related? In what ways do scientists respond to data Sixty scientists were interviewed. Content analyses of scientists' accounts of their experiences with contrary data revealed their views of the relation between scientific belief and data. The scientists expressed a range of epistemological positions. Positivist and constructivist positions were articulated almost equally. More than half of the scientists held more than one epistemological position, and shifted between positions in their accounts. Scientists' accounts were used to generate a model of the variety of ways in which scientists respond to contrary data. The model shows six alternative paths that scientists could take when faced with contrary data, and makes predictions about the likely behavior that follows.

Chilvers, J. (2013). "Reflexive Engagement? Actors, Learning, and Reflexivity in Public Dialogue on Science and Technology." Science Communication 35(3): 283-310.	This article contributes to a more reflexive mode of research on public engagement with science-related issues through presenting an in-depth qualitative study of the actors that mediate science-society interactions, their roles and relationships, and the nature of learning and reflexivity in relation to public dialogue. A mapping framework is developed to describe the roles and relations of actors mediating public dialogue on science and technology in Britain. Learning within public dialogue networks is shown to be instrumental only, crowding out potentials for reflexive and relational learning. This calls for renewed critical social science research alongside more deliberately reflexive learning relating to participatory governance of science and technology that is situated, interactive, public, and anticipatory.

Chimba, M. and J. Kitzinger (2010). "Bimbo or boffin? Women in science: an analysis of media representations and how female scientists negotiate cultural contradictions." Public Understanding of Science 19(5): 609-624.	This paper examines the gendered representations of scientists in the UK media. Our analysis reveals the asymmetrical ways in which men and women working in science, engineering and technology are portrayed, in particular through the emphasis on women's appearance and a focus on their exceptional status. It also highlights the way female scientists may be used to "sex up" the discipline in the context of increasing concern about the (un)popularity of science. This media analysis is contextualized by drawing on data from 86 scientists examining how women themselves experience press and television coverage and address the cultural contradictions surrounding their role. The research highlights the challenges facing women working in these fields and the dilemmas for those seeking to develop a "human" face for science and promote a positive image for women.

Chinn, S., et al. (2018). "In consensus we trust? Persuasive effects of scientific consensus communication." Public Understanding of Science 27(7): 807-823.	Scholars have recently suggested that communicating levels of scientific consensus (e.g. the percentage of scientists who agree about human-caused climate change) can shift public opinion toward the dominant scientific opinion. Initial research suggested that consensus communication effectively reduces public skepticism. However, other research failed to find a persuasive effect for those with conflicting prior beliefs. This study enters this contested space by experimentally testing how different levels of consensus shape perceptions of scientific certainty. We further examine how perceptions of certainty influence personal agreement and policy support. Findings indicate that communicating higher levels of consensus increases perceptions of scientific certainty, which is associated with greater personal agreement and policy support for non-political issues. We find some suggestive evidence that this mediated effect is moderated by participants' overall trust in science, such that those with low trust in science fail to perceive higher agreement as indicative of greater scientific certainty.

Chiu, B. and C. Arreglo (2011). "The Intersection of Theory and Practice: Environmental Sustainability and Social Justice at the Finger Lakes Environmental Film Festival (FLEFF)." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(2): 221-227.	The topic of environmental degradation and sustainability has long been a popular topic, but often, discussions and efforts have traditionally focused within predominantly upper-middle class, educated, Caucasian communities. The Finger Lakes Environmental Film Festival (FLEFF), hosted by Ithaca College in New York, is an interdisciplinary, multi-media annual event that draws upon the intersections of media, social justice, and environmental sustainability. By attracting a cohort of doctoral students of color, it is a model of the nexus of theory and practice in ecosee and just sustainability.

Choi, T. M. and J. H. Lambert (2017). "Advances in Risk Analysis with Big Data." Risk Analysis 37(8): 1435-1442.	With cloud computing, Internet-of-things, wireless sensors, social media, fast storage and retrieval, etc., organizations and enterprises have access to unprecedented amounts and varieties of data. Current risk analysis methodology and applications are experiencing related advances and breakthroughs. For example, highway operations data are readily available, and making use of them reduces risks of traffic crashes and travel delays. Massive data of financial and enterprise systems support decision making under risk by individuals, industries, regulators, etc. In this introductory article, we first discuss the meaning of big data for risk analysis. We then examine recent advances in risk analysis with big data in several topic areas. For each area, we identify and introduce the relevant articles that are featured in the special issue. We conclude with a discussion on future research opportunities.

Chowdhury, P. D., et al. (2012). "Public versus expert knowledge and perception of climate change-induced heat wave risk: a modified mental model approach." Journal of Risk Research 15(2): 149-168.	Effects of climate change and its induced extreme environmental events have been the object of intense public debate in recent years. Extreme environmental events, such as heat waves, and their impact upon the elderly and the poor are of special concern to policy-and decision-makers. However, how the public views these issues is critical for dealing with the associated risks. Recognizing the importance of risk assessments and implementation of mitigation measures, we adopted a comparative approach to assess and extend a generic methodology to examine diverse sets of beliefs about climate change-induced heat wave hazards. Using a modified mental model approach, this study mapped existing knowledge structures about the risk associated with climate change-induced heat waves in an urban setting of Canada (Winnipeg, Manitoba). 'Public models' were developed from open-ended interviews with diverse community groups; 'influence diagrams' were formulated based on open-ended discussions with experts in the pertinent fields. An assessment of the juxtaposition of the public and experts' knowledge and perception of heat wave risk has revealed significant gaps in the perception of: (a) the effects of climate change-induced heat wave and (b) of responsible authority for policy intervention to affect the cause or impacts. It further identifies misconceptions in public perception regarding: (a) thinning of ozone layer to cause a rise in earth's temperature; and (b) whether precautionary measures can be taken to reduce heat wave mortality; (c) of future heat wave 'risk estimation' in the city of Winnipeg. Based on our results, we argue that by developing interactive risk communication tools and practicing public engagement in knowledge enhancement, heat wave risk assessment and mitigation capacity of both public and experts can be improved.

Christensen, M. (2018). "Slow Violence in the Anthropocene: An Interview with Rob Nixon on Communication, Media, and the Environmental Humanities." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(1): 7-14.
	
Christensen, M., et al. (2018). "Environmental Themes in Popular Narratives." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(1): 1-6.
	
Christensen, M. and N. Wormbs (2017). "Global Climate Talks from Failure to Cooperation and Hope: Swedish News Framings of COP15 and COP21." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(5): 682-699.	The purpose of this study is to offer an analysis of how two UN Conferences of Parties, COP15 in Copenhagen 2009 and COP21 in Paris 2015, were covered and debated in Swedish newspapers. Two national and two regional newspapers were selected for the study, and a qualitative frame analysis was conducted on 309 articles. A typology of frames applicable to science-related policy and climate change debates was used and its relevance for global climate summit context was discussed. Having territory in the Arctic region, indigenous populations affected by climate change measures, and political and public sensitivity to environmental issues, the climate debate has particular significance in the Swedish case. Findings indicate a trust in the role of national and supra-national governance to address climate change problems, but also that newspapers in Sweden maintained a focus on the global aspects of the two meetings, rather than framing them as surrogate battlefields for domestic politics.

Christidou, V., et al. (2004). "Constructing social representations of science and technology: the role of metaphors in the press and the popular scientific magazines." Public Understanding of Science 13(4): 347-362.	This paper aims to reveal the social representations about the nature and the evolution of Space-Science & Astronomy, Genetics & Biotechnology, Natural Sciences and Engineering & Informatics, through analyzing active (i.e., original and creative) metaphors found in 2303 technoscientific articles published in four Greek daily newspapers and two popular scientific magazines. The analysis showed that all metaphors concerning the nature of the four disciplinary fields can be clustered into four superordinate categories that juxtapose these fields to: (1) a construct; (2) a supernatural process; (3) an activity extending the frontiers of knowledge; (4) a dipole of promise and/or scare. The most frequently employed category is that representing technoscience as an activity extending the frontiers of knowledge. Furthermore, the evolution of the four disciplines is mainly represented as a violent process. Each discipline though, seems to be characterized by combinations of different categories of metaphors. Therefore each discipline evokes different social representations.

Christidou, V., et al. (2012). "The image of scientific researchers and their activity in Greek adolescents' drawings." Public Understanding of Science 21(5): 626-647.	The image prevailing among the public of scientific research and researchers constitutes a contradictory and complex combination of traditional stereotypes. We explore central facets of the image of scientific research and researchers as reflected in Greek adolescent students' drawings. Drawings were produced by 171 students participating in a drawing competition launched in the context of the "Researchers' Night 2007" implemented by three research institutions in Greece. Analysis of students' drawings involved dimensions related to the image of scientific researchers and of scientific research. Outcomes indicate that the students hold fairly outdated views of scientific researchers and their activity, involving stereotypic views of scientists and science, as well as gender stereotypes. Therefore there is an urgent need to promote a more relevant image of scientific researchers and their activity to young people and especially students.

Christidou, V. and A. Kouvatas (2013). "Visual self-images of scientists and science in Greece." Public Understanding of Science 22(1): 91-109.	A popular and well-established image of scientists and science dominates in the public field, signifying a contradictory and multifaceted combination of stereotypes. This paper investigates crucial aspects of the visual self-image of Greek scientists and science as exposed in photographic material retrieved from relevant institutions' websites. In total 971 photos were analysed along dimensions corresponding to the image of scientists and science. Analysis demonstrates ambivalence in Greek scientists' self-images between traditional stereotypic characteristics and an intention to overcome them. Differences between the self-images of physics, chemistry and biology are determined, as well as between the "masculine" and "feminine" face of science. Implications concerning improvements in science and scientists' self-images and further research are presented.

Chryssochoidis, G., et al. (2009). "Public trust in institutions and information sources regarding risk management and communication: towards integrating extant knowledge." Journal of Risk Research 12(2): 137-185.	The present article attempts an integrative review of knowledge on public trust in institutions and information sources regarding risk management and communication. The review is based on 27 empirical studies, and is organised around four groups of trust-related factors. The empirical studies reveal that this field of research suffers from a lack of consistency in conceptualising 'trust'. Based on the review, a 'layering' of four different aspects of trust, from more general to more specific, has been designed, reflecting the identified layers of trust-related factors vis-a-vis: (1) socio-cultural and individual personality characteristics; (2) perceived attributes of institution or information source; (3) risk aspects; (4) information-specific aspects. This layered conceptualisation of trust demonstrates that trust in those managing and communicating risk is a complex phenomenon operative simultaneously in and interplaying across a number of levels.

Chryst, B., et al. (2018). "Global Warming's "Six Americas Short Survey": Audience Segmentation of Climate Change Views Using a Four Question Instrument." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(8): 1109-1122.	Audience segmentation has long been used in marketing, public health, and communication, and is now becoming an important tool in the environmental domain as well. Global Warming's Six Americas is a well-established segmentation of Americans based on their climate change beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors. The original Six Americas model requires a 36 question-screener and although there is increasing interest in using these segments to guide education and outreach efforts, the number of survey items required is a deterrent. Using 14 national samples and machine learning algorithms, we identify a subset of four questions from the original 36, the Six Americas Short SurveY (SASSY), that accurately segment survey respondents into the Six Americas categories. The four items cover respondents' global warming risk perceptions, worry, expected harm to future generations, and personal importance of the issue. The true positive accuracy rate for the model ranges between and across the six segments on a 20 hold-out set. Similar results were achieved with four out-of-sample validation data sets. In addition, the screener showed test-retest reliability on an independent, two-wave sample. To facilitate further research and outreach, we provide a web-based application of the new short-screener.

Chui, G., et al. (2001). "Cultivating the civic scientist - A panel discussion." Science Communication 23(1): 57-65.	As part of the symposium "Cultivating the Civic Scientist" at the 2001 American Association for the Advancement of Science annual meeting, a panel of two science journalists and a scientist explored key issues surrounding the civic, scientist concept. This panel discussion is based on part of that conversation.

Chung, I. J. (2011). "Social Amplification of Risk in the Internet Environment." Risk Analysis 31(12): 1883-1896.	This article analyzes the dynamic process of risk amplification in the Internet environment with special emphasis on public concern for environmental risks from a high-speed railway tunnel construction project in South Korea. Environmental organizations and activists serving as social stations collected information about the project and its ecological impact, and communicated this with the general public, social groups, and institutions. The Internet provides social stations and the public with an efficient means for interactive communication and an open space for active information sharing and public participation. For example, while the website of an organization such as an environmental activist group can initially trigger local interest, the Internet allows this information to be disseminated to a much wider audience in a manner unavailable to the traditional media. Interaction among social stations demonstrates an amplifying process of public attention to the risk. Analyses of the volume of readers' comments to online newspaper articles and public opinions posted on message board of public and nonprofit organizations show the ripple effects of the amplification process as measured along temporal, geographical, and sectoral dimensions. Public attention is also influenced by the symbolic connotations of risk information. Interpretations of risk in religious, political, or legal terms intensify public concern for the environmental risk.

Cicognani, E. and B. Zani (2015). "Communication of health risks from exposure to depleted uranium ( DU) in Italy: a case study." Journal of Risk Research 18(6): 771-788.
	
Claassen, L., et al. (2016). "Focal points for improving communications about electromagnetic fields and health: a mental models approach." Journal of Risk Research 19(2): 246-269.
	
Claassen, L., et al. (2017). "Improving lay understanding of exposure to electromagnetic fields; the effect of information on perception of and responses to risk." Journal of Risk Research 20(9): 1115-1131.	Studies show that, although many people are concerned about the potential health risks of being exposed to electromagnetic fields (EMF), lay understanding of exposure, an important determinant of risk perceptions and responses, is limited. In an online consumer panel (n=245), we tested the effects of providing people with information about EMF on lay understanding of exposure, and on perceptions and responses to risks, using an experimental 2x2x2 design. Providing people with specific information explaining the distance-exposure relationship, clarifying EMF policy, or specifying personal exposure management options actions resulted in a better understanding of exposure. We demonstrated that information provision as such had no effects on concerns about EMF nor on perceived risk of personal sources, i.e. mobile phones, but lowered perception of risk of public sources, i.e. mobile phone base stations and high-voltage power lines. In addition, information explaining the distance-exposure relationship in combination with policy information resulted in reduced self-reported risk-aversive responses. Moreover, participants who understood more about exposure in relation to the distance to the source showed lower perceptions of risk, were less likely to restrict their own exposure, and more likely to accept new installations of public sources of EMF in their neighborhood. In contrast, awareness that exposure was mainly determined by personal use of EMF sources corresponded with higher perceptions of risk from personal sources and a higher likelihood to restrict one's own exposure. Our findings provide focal points for improving communication on EMF. In particular, we suggest to include information clarifying the distance-exposure relationship to improve understanding of exposure.

Clark, F. and D. L. Illman (2001). "Dimensions of civic science - Introductory essay." Science Communication 23(1): 5-27.	A civic scientist has been described by Neal Lane. former presidential science adviser, as one who "engages the public in a dialogue about science and society." The concept of the civic scientist has received considerable attention nationally with the recent publication of a report on the subject by the National Science Board. But concepts and terms used in the literature and the press to characterize civic scientists and civic science have been ambiguous, if not conflicting. This article analyzes these recent articulations of the civic science concept, situating these ideas within the context of the existing science communication landscape.

Clark, F. and D. L. Illman (2003). "Content analysis of New York Times coverage of space issues for the year 2000." Science Communication 25(1): 14-38.	Human activities in space have changed and grown significantly in magnitude and complexity over the past several years, prompting an investigation of the extent to which media coverage reflects the current state of the space arena. This study provides overviews of recent developments in the space arena and of previous research on space coverage. A content analysis was conducted of all space-related stories and editorials found in the New York Times during the time period 1 January to 31 December 2000. The study characterizes New York Times coverage of the main elements of the space arena (civil, commercial, national security, and the associated legal/regulatory issues) during that time period and discusses some implications of this coverage.

Clark, F. and D. L. Illman (2006). "A longitudinal study of the New York times science times section." Science Communication 27(4): 496-513.	The weekly science section of the New York Times, Science Times, is an important and influential entity in science journalism. This article presents the results of an in-depth, longitudinal study of Science Times over twenty years. Sampling every five years from 1980 to 2000, the authors analyzed changes in the size of the section, advertising, and coverage emphasis in terms of disciplines and themes treated. Science Times grew from 1.7 pages per issue, on average (excluding advertising), in 1980 to 5.4 pages per issue in 2000. While the downturn in computer-related advertising is often blamed for the demise of science sections in other newspapers, Science limes was bigger in 2000 than during the boom years of computer-related advertising. Medicine, health, and behavior received the most attention overall, although the proportion varied over time. While research findings were the most frequent theme, explanations, reviews, and profiles were a substantial component. The findings are discussed with regard to the institutional history of Science Times.

Clarke, B. (2003). "Report: Farmers and scientists - A case study in facilitating communication." Science Communication 25(2): 198-203.	Global agriculture faces many challenges, with novel technologies presenting a range of options to help address them. However, appropriate communication between researchers and producers is vital for the development, acceptance, and adoption of new innovations or techniques. The traditional deficit model of one-way information flow from the laboratory to the field is being replaced by a contextual model involving two-way dialogue. Here, I present qualitative evidence of the impact of a transition between these models. In Europe, there is a disconnect between researchers and producers; therefore, inspired by communication models in developing countries, suggestions are offered for facilitating interactions between scientists and farmers in more developed areas of the world.

Clarke, C. E. (2008). "A question of balance - The autism-vaccine controversy in the British and American elite press." Science Communication 30(1): 77-107.	Although balance is a well-known and arguably important journalistic norm, how should journalists adhere to this norm when the bulk of scientific evidence clearly favors one (presumably accurate) perspective? Should balance be defined in terms of the quantity of information or the quality of viewpoints presented? Using British and American newspaper coverage of the autism-vaccine controversy as a case study, this article explores whether balanced reporting on scientific claims produced a discourse at odds with the scientific consensus that there was no autism-vaccine link. Implications for journalism ethics and risk communication are discussed.

Clarke, C. E. (2011). "A case of conflicting norms? Mobilizing and accountability information in newspaper coverage of the autism-vaccine controversy." Public Understanding of Science 20(5): 609-626.	When reporting health risks, the news media are often criticized for omitting "mobilizing" information that allows readers to act on existing attitudes. Using American and British newspaper coverage of the autism-vaccine controversy as a case study, this article takes a "behind the scenes" look at normative pressures that may influence whether such information appears in coverage. In particular, can holding health officials accountable for their actions potentially "crowd out" mobilizing information? A content analysis suggests that mobilizing information (at least one of four examples) was present in only 16% of articles, compared to 38% that mentioned accountability messages (at least one of two examples). US newspapers were significantly more likely to mention at least one mobilization example. Finally, although only 11% discussed both, articles were more likely to discuss certain mobilizing and accountability examples together. Implications for journalism ethics and vaccine risk communication are discussed.

Clarke, T. (2010). "Goshute Native American Tribe and Nuclear Waste: Complexities and Contradictions of a Bounded-Constitutive Relationship." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(4): 387-405.	This essay examines discourse from members of the Skull Valley Goshute Native American tribe about the nuclear-waste proposal and tribal controversy. Building from Kinsella's obounded-constitutiveo theoretical model of communication, I argue the environment (material) is more than a context where Goshute culture and policy development (symbolic) plays out. Rather, environment, culture, and policy mutually define each other, and the material environment constrains Goshute culture. Instead of the symbolic unilaterally influencing the material, the material responds and acts to influence the symbolic. The symbolic becomes responsible to the material and vice versa as the relationship is multi-influential and interactive creating political, cultural, and environmental complexities and contradictions while fueling intra-tribal conflict.

Clement, P. (2015). "Muslim teachers' conceptions of evolution in several countries." Public Understanding of Science 24(4): 400-421.	Using a questionnaire validated by the project Biohead-Citizen, where 15 questions are dedicated to evolution, we analyse Muslim teachers' conceptions of evolution in several countries. The first part compares nine francophone countries, with varying degrees of Muslim or Christian culture: France, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Lebanon, Senegal, Burkina Faso, Cameroon and Gabon, and shows a strong contrast between France and the eight other countries. The second part compares Muslim and Christian teachers in the countries where the comparison is possible, finding no difference, or a few differences in Lebanon. The third part analyses the data related to the 2130 Muslim teachers sampled to identify the controlled parameters that can be correlated to their variations. The discussion is structured by three questions: Are Muslim countries, and Muslim teachers, more creationist than other ones? Is the teachers' knowledge related to their more or less creationist conceptions? Are Muslim teachers more creationist in European countries?

Clewell, H. J. and K. S. Crump (2005). "Quantitative estimates of risk for noncancer endpoints." Risk Analysis 25(2): 285-289.	While quantitative estimates of risk have been a standard practice in cancer risk assessment for many years, no similar practice is evident in noncancer risk assessment. We use two recent examples involving methylmercury and arsenic to illustrate the negative impact of this discrepancy on risk communication and cost-benefit analysis. We argue for a more balanced treatment of cancer and noncancer risks and suggest an approach for reaching this goal.

Click, M. A. and R. Ridberg (2010). "Saving Food: Food Preservation as Alternative Food Activism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(3): 301-317.	The renewed interest in sustainable agriculture suggests we are in the midst of a food revolution. However, food movements' focus on individual, instead of collective, action has opened food activism to critiques that it is too focused on consumer politics and lacks the force necessary to make substantive changes in the global food system ( e. g., Delind, 2006; Hassanein, 2003). Our examination of the practices of and motivations for food preservation, using survey and interview data, reveals that food preservation presents an opportunity to move alternative food practices away from an individualistic, consumer-oriented politics to a politics based upon relationships to self, others, and the earth, enabling activists to connect more deeply to the goals of food movements. Unlike the dominant discourses of food movements, which encourage an individualistic, consumer-oriented politics, food preservation emphasizes connection and relationships and thus has the potential to subvert the capitalistic logic of the global agro-food industry.

Clothier, R. A., et al. (2015). "Risk Perception and the Public Acceptance of Drones." Risk Analysis 35(6): 1167-1183.	Unmanned aircraft, or drones, are a rapidly emerging sector of the aviation industry. There has been limited substantive research, however, into the public perception and acceptance of drones. This article presents the results from two surveys of the Australian public designed to investigate (1) whether the public perceive drones to be riskier than existing manned aviation, (2) whether the terminology used to describe the technology influences public perception, and (3) what the broader concerns are that may influence public acceptance of the technology. We find that the Australian public currently hold a relatively neutral attitude toward drones. Respondents did not consider the technology to be overly unsafe, risky, beneficial, or threatening. Drones are largely viewed as being of comparable risk to that of existing manned aviation. Furthermore, terminology had a minimal effect on the perception of the risks or acceptability of the technology. The neutral response is likely due to a lack of knowledge about the technology, which was also identified as the most prevalent public concern as opposed to the risks associated with its use. Privacy, military use, and misuse (e.g., terrorism) were also significant public concerns. The results suggest that society is yet to form an opinion of drones. As public knowledge increases, the current position is likely to change. Industry communication and media coverage will likely influence the ultimate position adopted by the public, which can be difficult to change once established.

Cobb, M. D. (2005). "Framing effects on public opinion about nanotechnology." Science Communication 27(2): 221-239.	In this study, I examine whether Americans' emotions and opinions about nanotechnology are influenced by how the issue is framed. Using data collected from an experiment embedded within a national survey, I find consistent framing effects even though the magnitudes of respondents' opinion changes are not especially large. Frames about specific risks and benefits of nanotechnology are more influential than frames based on general beliefs about the merits of science, and framing nanotechnology as beneficial is only, somewhat less powerful than framing it as risky. I conclude by discussing the implications of these framing effects for future mass opinions about nanotechnology.

Codern, N., et al. (2010). "Risk Perception Among Smokers: A Qualitative Study." Risk Analysis 30(10): 1563-1571.	The aim of this qualitative study is to identify the dimensions people used to assess the risk of smoking and then compare them with those used by health professionals in primary healthcare. Five discussion groups were conducted. The field work was carried out in Barcelona (Spain), from February 2005 to January 2006. Data were analyzed following a semantic-thematic categorical content analysis (ACC-ts). Results showed that people tend to employ stereotypical discourses when evaluating the risk of smoking. Similarly, they reassess the risk in the context of their life experience and incorporate new nuances to the arguments sustaining their behavior. Once this reassessment takes place, the decision to continue smoking emerges, and smokers come up with additional arguments justifying their habit (i.e., age, benefits related to costs). Professionals are aware of this process and its multidimensional nature. Nevertheless, their discourse loses this multidimensional feature when discussing the strategies they use at smoking cessation interventions. This qualitative study increases the understanding of various meanings that people attribute to their life experience. These assumptions may be useful for developing health practices that are closer to people. As a practical utility of these results, it would be interesting to apply a preliminary assessment of the different meanings that people attribute to smoking from their life context in risk communication.

Cohen, M. J. (1998). "Science and the environment: assessing cultural capacity for ecological modernization." Public Understanding of Science 7(2): 149-167.	Ecological modernization is emerging as a new paradigm for the environmental improvement of advanced nations. Rather than emphasize the use of remedial technologies as has been customary since the 1970s, this approach reframes the relationship between economics and the environment to overcome the zero-sum antagonism of the earlier era. This transformation faces numerous obstacles, and ultimate success will depend on a wide range of predisposing national characteristics, including institutional design and economic organization. The current analysis focuses specifically on an often overlooked third factor, cultural endowment, examining the extent to which it will likely condition the capability of individual nations to meet these challenges. Particularly important cultured attributes for ecological modernization are a strong public commitment to science and a robust environmental consciousness. Using data from several cross-national sources. including the Euro-Barometer, the World Values Survey, and the International Social Survey Programme, this analysis assesses the cultural capacities of a sample of fifteen advanced nations. The Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries, because of widespread lay respect for science and extensive public endorsement of environmental protection, appear to have enhanced cultural potential to pursue ecological modernization.

Coldicutt, S. (1995). "The Roles of Positive Theory in Built-Environment Decision-Making." Science Communication 17(1): 32-56.	By exploring the processes by which theory and the organizational politics of built-environment decisionmaking are intertwined with each other this article shows how ''positive'' theory regarding contentious ends appears to be systematically misapplied in built-environment decisionmaking. Positive theory tends to be veiled with a ''factual'' status that appears to be in lune with the tacit aims of institutions applying if so that theory and institutions are mutually self-supporting. As a result, the explicit aims of practicing decisionmakers may fail to be realized if they conflict with tacit aims of institutions and theory. The article shows how these misapplications can be revealed by questioning aspects of the underlying aims of decisionmakers and of the organizational politics involved.

Cole, R. (2017). "1972: The BBC's Controversy and the politics of audience participation." Public Understanding of Science 26(4): 514-518.
	
Cole, S. A. (2015). "A surfeit of science: The "CSI effect" and the media appropriation of the public understanding of science." Public Understanding of Science 24(2): 130-146.	Over the past decade, popular media has promulgated claims that the television program CSI and its spinoffs and imitators have had a pernicious effect on the public understanding of forensic science, the so-called CSI effect. This paper analyzes those media claims by documenting the ways in which the media claims that CSI distorts an imagined reality. It shows that the media appropriated the analytic stance usually adopted by science advocates, portraying the CSI effect as a social problem in science communication. This appropriation was idiosyncratic in that it posited, as a social problem, a surfeit of knowledge and positive imagery about science, rather than the more familiar deficits. In addition, the media simultaneously appropriated both traditional and critical PUS discourses. Despite this apparent contradiction, the paper concludes that, in both discourses, the media and its expert informants insist upon their hegemony over the public to articulate the reality of forensic science.

Cole-Turner, R. (1999). "Faith meets the Human Genome Project: religious factors in the public response to genetics." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 207-214.	Providers of genetic services need to be broadly aware of the role that religious beliefs can play in the public's understanding of genetic information and of the choices that are posed. This paper identifies three religious themes that tend to arise when religious people, especially Christians, are involved in genetic testing and pre-symptomatic diagnosis. The first theme of fate and freedom leads to the prediction that religious people will be less likely than others to ascribe fatalistic or deterministic powers to genes but will want to maintain room for human and divine freedom, and that perhaps they will err too much in this direction. The second theme, having to do with religious community, suggests that religious people will experience a tension between the need for genetic privacy and the desire to share personal concerns with their faith community. Third, religious people regard the unborn with respect, even if not all regard the fetus as a person. Those who accept abortion for genetic reasons are likely to grieve the loss and to look for rituals to mark the value of the life that was not continued.

Coleman, C. L. and E. V. Dysart (2005). "Framing of Kennewick Man against the backdrop of a scientific and cultural controversy." Science Communication 27(1): 3-26.	The authors examine news coverage surrounding the unearthing of an ancient skeleton known as Kennewick Man. The skeleton was the focus of legal arguments from 1996 to 2004, with a group of scientists countering Indian claims that the skeleton should be rightfully repatriated to the North American tribes. The authors take a case-study approach, examining the theoretical underpinnings of scientific and cultural rationality in contemporary ways of knowing and linking them with communitarian ethics offered by Clifford Christians and others. Through an examination of mass media framing, the authors show how coverage has resulted in a discourse that has limited discussion to a division of rationalities. In this case, rationalist and cultural values unfold with scant attendance to ethical or pluralistic considerations.

Collins, H. and R. Evans (2008). "You cannot be serious! Public understanding of technology with special reference to "Hawk-Eye"." Public Understanding of Science 17(3): 283-308.	Public understanding of science, though it approaches the specialist knowledge of experts only in rare circumstances, can be enhanced more broadly in respect of the processes of science and technology. The public understanding of measurement errors and confidence intervals could be enhanced if "sports decision aids," such as the Hawk-Eye system, were to present their results in a different way. There is a danger that Hawk-Eye as used could inadvertently cause naive viewers to overestimate the ability of technological devices to resolve disagreement among humans because measurement errors are not made salient. For example, virtual reconstructions can easily be taken to show " exactly what really happened." Suggestions are made for how confidence levels might be measured and represented and " health warnings" attached to reconstructions. A general principle for the use of sports decision aids is put forward. A set of open questions about Hawk-Eye is presented which, if answered, could help inform discussions of its use and accuracy.

Collins, H. and R. Evans (2012). "Sport-decision aids and the "CSI-effect": Why cricket uses Hawk-Eye well and tennis uses it badly." Public Understanding of Science 21(8): 904-921.	Technologies of visualisation and measurement are changing the relationship between spectators and match officials at sporting events. Umpires and referees find themselves under increasing scrutiny and sports governing bodies are experimenting with new technologies and additional "off-field" officials in order to preserve the legitimacy of decision-making. In this paper, we examine how technologies are being used in a number of sports, paying particular attention to the way in which uncertainty and indeterminacy are conveyed to viewers and spectators. The contrast between cricket and tennis is particularly instructive in this respect as the same technology is used in two very different ways. The paper concludes with a series of recommendations for implementing sports measurement technologies whilst preserving the traditions of individual sports and enriching technological culture.

Collins, L. and B. Nerlich (2015). "Examining User Comments for Deliberative Democracy: A Corpus-driven Analysis of the Climate Change Debate Online." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(2): 189-207.	The public perception of climate change is characterized by heterogeneity, even polarization. Deliberative discussion is regarded by some as key to overcoming polarization and engaging various publics with the complex issue of climate change. In this context, online engagement with news stories is seen as a space for a new "deliberative democratic potential" to emerge. This article examines aspects of deliberation in user comment threads in response to articles on climate change taken from the Guardian. "Deliberation" is understood through the concepts "reciprocity", "topicality", and "argumentation". We demonstrate how corpus analysis can be used to examine the ways in which online debates around climate change may create or deny opportunities for multiple voices and deliberation. Results show that whilst some aspects of online discourse discourage alternative viewpoints and demonstrate "incivility", user comments also show potential for engaging in dialog, and for high levels of interaction.

Collins, L. C. and B. Nerlich (2016). "How certain is "certain'? Exploring how the English-language media reported the use of calibrated language in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's Fifth Assessment Report." Public Understanding of Science 25(6): 656-673.	This article presents findings from an analysis of English-language media reports following the publication of the fifth Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Assessment Report in September 2013. Focusing on the way they reported the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's use of calibrated' language, we find that of 1906 articles relating to the issuing of the report only 272 articles (14.27%) convey the use of a deliberate and systematic verbal scale. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's carefully calibrated language was rarely discussed or explicated, but in some instances scientists, political actors or journalists would attempt to contextualise or elaborate on the reported findings by using analogies to other scientific principles or examples of taking action despite uncertainty. We consider those analogies in terms of their efficacy in communicating (un)certainty.

Comfort, S. E. and Y. E. Park (2018). "On the Field of Environmental Communication: A Systematic Review of the Peer-Reviewed Literature." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(7): 862-875.	The field of environmental communication has reached several milestones since the 1990s, particularly the establishment of environmental communication-related divisions at professional associations and the founding of the journal Environmental Communication in 2007. This systematic review characterizes the peer-reviewed literature on environmental communication to date, examining methods, geography, top-cited articles, and analyzing keyword and titles. Drawing on the Web of Science Core Collection, which archives the Social Sciences Citation Index and the Arts & Humanities Citation Index, the review finds that attention to environmental communication has exploded in recent years and that the field is methodologically open-minded. Scholars have shifted focus from general environmental risk to specifically climate change in the last decade. Implications for the field are discussed.

Compton, J. (2018). "When Weather Forecasters Are Wrong: Image Repair and Public Rhetoric After Severe Weather." Science Communication 40(6): 778-788.	Weather forecasts are a unique type of prediction rhetoric-science communication with inherent uncertainty and multiple potential interpretations from diverse audiences. When forecasts are wrong, audiences often turn their ire toward the weather forecaster. This rhetorical analysis considers image repair efforts of a meteorologist following a botched winter storm forecast. Implications for communication efforts of weather forecasters are offered, in addition to consideration of insight into the larger realm of the rhetoric of science.

Conchie, S. M. and C. Burns (2008). "Trust and risk communication in high-risk organizations: A test of principles from social risk research." Risk Analysis 28(1): 141-149.	This study explored the effects of open communication about occupational risks on workers' trust beliefs and trust intentions toward risk management, and the resilience of these beliefs and intentions to further risk information. An experimental survey of 393 student nurses showed the importance of open communication in the development of worker trust in risk management. Consistent with the trust asymmetry principle, we found that the increase in trust beliefs following open communication was weaker than the reduction in trust following a lack of communication. Further, the level of trust developed through communication (or lack of) influenced the way that subsequent risk information was processed. Negative risk information reduced trust beliefs in nurses with already low levels of trust while positive risk information increased trust beliefs only in those with already high levels. A similar pattern of results emerged for nurses' trust intentions, although the magnitude of these effects was weaker. The implications of these findings for occupational risk management are discussed.

Conchie, S. M. and I. J. Donald (2006). "The role of distrust in offshore safety performance." Risk Analysis 26(5): 1151-1159.	Trust is recognized as a potentially important factor in safety within high-risk industries. However, little detailed empirical research has explored how trust operates in these contexts to influence worker safety performance. The present study addresses this by (i) identifying the target (occupational group) in which trust is most important for good safety, and (ii) establishing the "type" of trust (trust or distrust) with the greatest impact on safety performance. A questionnaire survey of 203 UK offshore gas workers' attitudes of trust and distrust toward four occupational groups (workmates, supervisors, offshore managers, and contractors) and an operating company was conducted. Logistic regression analysis identified attitudes toward offshore management as the strongest predictor of safety performance at an industry level. At an installation level, safety performance was best predicted by attitudes toward contractors and workmates. Further analysis revealed attitudes of distrust as better predictors of safety performance compared to attitudes of trust. These findings suggest that safety professionals should pay more attention to the role of distrust in safety performance. They also suggest that safety initiatives should target attitudes toward specific groups for optimal effectiveness.

Condit, C. (2001). "Studying genetic popularization." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 139-143.
	
Condit, C. and R. Parrott (2004). "Perceived levels of health risk associated with linguistic descriptors and type of disease." Science Communication 26(2): 152-161.	To guide communication with lay people about levels of genetic risk, this exploratory study employs a written survey to assess whether different levels of perceived risk were associated with varying the terminology used to describe the nature of risk associated with genes and several diseases. Results indicate that for lay participants (N = 243), there is a statistically significant difference in the level of risk associated with the terminology "has a gene that causes" as compared to the lower risk attributed when the terminology "has a family history of is used. Participants attributed a higher level of risk to family history for heart disease than family history for diabetes. Implications of the findings for science communication associated with the severity and susceptibility of individuals for disease linked to genes are discussed.

Condit, C. M. (1999). "How the public understands genetics: non-deterministic and non-discriminatory interpretations of the "blueprint" metaphor." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 169-180.	Critics have worried that recent mass media coverage of genetics encourages genetic determinism and discriminatory attitudes in the public. They have identified the "blueprint" metaphor as one major component of public discourse that encourages such undesirable public opinions. To assess public interpretations of popular discourse about genetics, this audience study exposed 137 college students to sample genetics news articles and asked for their interpretations of the "blueprint" metaphor and of genetics in general. A larger group, the plurality offered nondeterministic interpretations and perspectives on genetics. A small minority offered discriminatory interpretations, whereas a plurality offered explicit antidiscriminatory interpretations and opinions. Non-deterministic views were based on interpretations of the blueprint metaphor that understood genes as operating in a partial and probabilistic fashion, and that interpreted genes as malleable through individual will or technological intervention.

Condit, C. M. (2018). "The character of scientists in the Nobel Prize speeches." Public Understanding of Science 27(4): 417-432.	This essay describes the ethos (i.e. the character projected to specific audiences) of the 25 Nobel Lectures in Physics, Chemistry, and Physiology or Medicine given in 2013-2015 and the 15 Presentation Speeches given at the Nobel Banquets between 2011 and 2015. A thematically focused qualitative analysis grounded in theories of epideictic discourse indicates the Nobel speakers demonstrated a range of strategies for and degrees of success in negotiating the tensions created by the implicit demands of ceremonial speeches, the scientific emphasis on didactic style and research content, and the different potential audiences (scientific experts and interested publics). Relatively few speeches explicitly displayed goodwill toward humanity instead of primarily toward the scientific community. Some speakers emphasized qualities of goodness in line with social values shared by broad audiences, but some reinforced stereotypes of scientists as anti-social. Speakers were variable in their ability to bridge the substantial gaps in resources for shared good sense.

Condit, C. M., et al. (2001). "An exploratory study of the impact of news headlines on genetic determinism." Science Communication 22(4): 379-395.	Critics have suggested that news headlines about generics with inappropriately deterministic content will produce increased levels of determinism in the public er en when news article contents are not highly deterministic. This might result from a replacement effect (headlines stand in for the content of the article because few people read it fully) or from framing effect (headlines frame the interpretation of the article content). A quantitative e impact study and an interview method were used to rest the impact of the framing effect in a news article on genes and diabetes. This exploratory study found no support for a framing effect. Directions for future research are discussed.

Condit, C. M., et al. (2009). "Believing in both genetic determinism and behavioral action: a materialist framework and implications." Public Understanding of Science 18(6): 730-746.	A disparity exists between studies reporting that genetics discourse produces deterministic or fatalistic responses and studies reporting that the majority of laypeople do not hold or adopt genetically deterministic views. This article reports data from an interview study (n = 50), and an interpretation of those data grounded in materialist understandings of discourse, that explains at least part of the disparity. The article employs a detailed reading of an illustrative transcript embedded in a quantitative content analysis to suggest that laypeople have incorporated two sets of public discourses-one that describes genetic causation and another that describes behavioral causation. These different discourse tracks are presumed to be encoded in different sets of neural networks in people's minds. Consequently, each track can be articulated upon proper cueing, but the tracks are not related to each other to produce a discourse for speaking about gene-behavior interactions. Implications for the effects of this mode of instantiation of discourse in human individuals with regard to genes and behavior are discussed, as well as implications for message design.

Condit, C. M., et al. (2012). "Recent rhetorical studies in public understanding of science: Multiple purposes and strengths." Public Understanding of Science 21(4): 386-400.	We review rhetorical studies of the public understanding of science that were published in journals since the last major review in this journal (1994-2011). Our review suggests that a vibrant and increasingly sophisticated body of research 1) has pursued Gross's (1994) emphasis on contextual studies and studies emphasizing judgment of scientific rhetorics, 2) is producing a growing body of work designed to develop specific strategies for scientific rhetorics, and 3) has produced a host of studies exploring science-public interactions (rather than producing sustained fora for such interactions, as Gross argued for). It has, however, 4) produced only modest independent development of rhetorical theories.

Condit, C. M., et al. (2002). "Lay understandings of the relationship between race and genetics: Development of a collectivized knowledge through shared discourse." Public Understanding of Science 11(4): 373-387.	Throughout the past century, research into human genetics revealed the relationships between biochemistry and various human characteristics in increasing detail. At each step of this path of discovery, social critics warned that knowledge-of genetics, and especially social attention to genetics, might heighten racist attitudes. In light of these warnings and the recent sequencing of the Human Genome, it is important to inquire into the interpretations laypersons might hold of the relationship between race and genetics. A variety of recent efforts have described the insufficiency of public opinion polls for arriving at sophisticated understandings of such complex attitudinal structures. Therefore, this essay offers a sketch of some lay understandings of race and genetics in the United States based on a series of focus group sessions. In order to interpret the responses, the analysis employs a novel template for interpreting focus group research based on the theoretical concept of rhetorical formations. This approach reveals the way in which the knowledge of individual members is brought to bear upon collective decision-making through the social process of discussion to produce a pool of information that is similar to expert knowledge, although phrased in a popular vocabulary. Differences in the ways in which cultural groups negotiate this knowledge are discussed.

Condit, C. M., et al. (2004). "The role of "genetics" in popular understandings of race in the United States." Public Understanding of Science 13(3): 249-272.	The increase in public representation of the science-based concept "genetics" in the mass media might be expected to have a major impact on public understanding of the concept of "race." A model of lay understandings of the role of genetics in the contemporary United States is offered based on focus group research, random digit dial surveys, and community based surveys. That model indicates that lay people identify race primarily by physical features, but these identifications are categorized into a variety of groupings that may be regional, national, or linguistic. Although they believe that physical appearance is caused largely by genetics, and therefore that race has a genetic basis, they do not uniformly conclude, however, that all perceived racial characteristics are genetically based. Instead, they vary in the extent to which they attribute differences to cultural, personal, and genetic factors.

Connelly, N. A. and B. A. Knuth (1998). "Evaluating risk communication: Examining target audience perceptions about four presentation formats for fish consumption health advisory information." Risk Analysis 18(5): 649-659.	Information format can influence the extent to which target audiences understand and respond to risk-related information. This study examined four elements of risk information presentation format. Using printed materials, we, examined target audience perceptions about: (a) reading level; (b) use of diagrams vs. text; (c) commanding versus cajoling tone; and (d) use of qualitative vs. quantitative information presented in a risk ladder. We used the risk communication topic of human health concerns related to eating noncommercial Great Lakes fish affected by chemical contaminants. Results from the comparisons of specific communication formats indicated that multiple formats are required to meet the needs of a significant percent of anglers for three of the four format types examined. Advisory text should be reviewed to ensure the reading level is geared to abilities of the target audience. For many audiences, a combination of qualitative and quantitative information, and a combination of diagrams and text may be most effective. For most audiences, a cajoling rather than commanding tone better provides them with the information they need to make a decision about fish consumption. Segmenting audiences regarding information needs and communication formats may help clarify which approaches to take with each audience.

Connelly, N. A., et al. (2018). "Using a Web-Based Diary Method to Estimate Risks and Benefits from Fish Consumption." Risk Analysis 38(6): 1116-1127.	Accurate estimates of the amount and type of fish people eat are necessary to determine the health benefits and risks of consuming fish, and to assess compliance with fish consumption guidelines issued for fish affected by chemical contaminants. We developed a web-based and mobile-phone-enabled diary methodology to collect detailed fish consumption information for two 16-week periods in the summers of 2014 and 2015. We recruited study participants from two populations living in the Great Lakes regionwomen of childbearing age (WCBA) and urban residents who had purchased fishing licenses. In this article, we describe the methodology in detail and provide evidence related to participation rates, the representativeness of our sample over time, and both convergent validity and reliability of the data collection methods. Overall, 56% of WCBA and 50% of urban anglers provided complete data across both data collection periods. Among those who provided information at the beginning of Year 2, 97% of both audiences provided information throughout the entire 16-week period. Those who participated throughout the two-year period were slightly older on average (1.9-2.5 years) than other members of our original samples. We conclude that using diaries with web and smartphone technology, combined with incentives and persistent communication, has strong potential for assessing fish consumption in other areas of the country or for situations where the potential risks associated with fish consumption are substantial and the cost can be justified.

Connolly-Ahern, C. and S. C. Broadway (2008). ""To booze or not to booze?" Newspaper coverage of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders." Science Communication 29(3): 362-385.	This article reports the results of a qualitative framing analysis of the coverage of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD). The findings indicate that media discourse about FASD is characterized by differing story types and competing frames. The study also documents the recent emergence of a new frame in opposition to the prevailing abstinence frame in health coverage. This frame has shown physicians to be conflicted in their advice about drinking during pregnancy.

Connor, M. and M. Siegrist (2010). "Factors Influencing People's Acceptance of Gene Technology: The Role of Knowledge, Health Expectations, Naturalness, and Social Trust." Science Communication 32(4): 514-538.	This article aims to examine which factors influence people's perception of gene technology. Data come from a mail survey in the German speaking part of Switzerland (N = 830). Principal component analyses for acceptance, risks, and benefits of 12 gene technology applications resulted in two factors: one related to medical applications and the other to nonmedical applications. Results showed that three different types of knowledge did not substantially influence perceived risks or perceived benefits of gene technology. Overall results suggest that the experiential system and not the analytical system determines lay people's perception of gene technology.

Connor, M. and M. Siegrist (2013). "Sorting biotechnology applications: Results of multidimensional scaling (MDS) and cluster analysis." Public Understanding of Science 22(2): 128-136.	When people respond to questionnaires, they may construct preferences using various sources of information available, even questions within the questionnaire. An experimental approach with a representative sample of the Swiss population was applied to investigate how stable attitudes towards biotechnology are and which criteria people use spontaneously to evaluate and categorise biotechnology applications providing as little information as possible. A free card-sorting task using risk as a criterion versus not imposing a criterion was applied. Data were analysed using multidimensional scaling (MDS) and were represented in a cognitive map. Results of our experimental manipulation suggest that people's preferences for biotechnology applications are relatively stable. Different sorting instructions did not result in different cognitive maps. Results suggest, therefore, that participants' evaluations are not strongly influenced by criteria used in a questionnaire. The descriptions of the applications seem to be more crucial.

Conrad, P. (1997). "The black stork: Eugenics and the death of 'defective' babies in American medicine and motion pictures since 1915 - Pernick,MS." Public Understanding of Science 6(3): 293-294.
	
Conrad, P. (1999). "Uses of expertise: sources, quotes, and voice in the reporting of genetics in the news." Public Understanding of Science 8(4): 285-302.	Science journalists call upon experts for background and for clarification and comment on scientific Endings. This paper examines how science writers choose and use experts, and it focuses on several cases of reporting about genetics and behavior. Our research included two sources of data: interviews with 15 science reporters and three print media samples of coverage of genetics and behavior-alcoholism (between 1980-1995), homosexuality (in 1993 and 1995), and mental illness (between 1970-1995). Science reporters seek relevant and specific experts for nearly every story. Good sources are knowledgeable, are connected to prestigious institutions, are direct and articulate and don't overqualify statements, and they return phone calls. The mean number of experts quoted was 2.8 per story, differing for alcoholism (3.5), homosexuality (2.8), and mental illness (2.6). Researchers and scientists predominated among experts quoted. Quotes were used to provide context, give legitimization, as explication, to provide a kind of balance, and to outline implications. For the homosexuality sample, a significantly greater percentage of activists and advocates were quoted (21 percent compared with 5 percent and 1 percent in other samples, X-2 < 0.0001). "Lay" quotes for alcoholism and mental illness were minimal. Except for homosexuality, whose advocates are organized, those "affected" do not have a voice in genetics news stories.

Cook, G., et al. (2006). ""Words of mass destruction": British newspaper coverage of the genetically modified food debate, expert and non-expert reactions." Public Understanding of Science 15(1): 5-29.	This article reports the findings of a one-year project examining British press coverage of the genetically modified (GM) food debate during the first half of 2003, and both expert and non-expert reactions to that coverage. Two pro-GM newspapers and two anti-GM newspapers were selected for analysis, and all articles mentioning GM during the period in question were stored in a machine readable database. This was then analyzed using corpus linguistic and discourse analytic techniques to reveal recurrent wording, themes and content. This text analysis was complemented by 12 interviews with experts involved in the communication of GM issues, and 12 focus-group sessions in which members of the public reacted to selected newspaper texts and other GM material. Both in the press and in public reaction, the issue of GM was found to be intimately associated with other political events of the time, notably the invasion of Iraq. Except among experts, there was little awareness of the official national debate and issues were approached in more general terms. Pro-GM characterization of the issues as primarily scientific, both by newspapers and experts, was rejected by the anti-GM press and campaigners, and by the focus-group participants. They assessed the issues in a more global frame, rejecting scientists and companies as unreliable. In addition, they linked both US and British GM policy to the invasion of Iraq, and, by analogy, rejected pro-GM arguments as untrustworthy.

Cook, J. (2017). "Response by Cook to "Beyond Counting Climate Consensus"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 733-735.
	
Cookson, C. (2010). "How journalists perceive risk communication - Risk communication guidelines for Europe: a modest proposition - comments to R. Lofstedt." Journal of Risk Research 13(1): 111-114.
	
Cooper, B. E. J., et al. (2012). "The quality of the evidence for dietary advice given in UK national newspapers." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 664-673.	Introduction: Newspaper reports advocating dietary intake changes may impact on dietary choice and food related health beliefs. The scientific basis and quality of evidence underpinning these reports is uncertain. Objective: To evaluate the scientific quality of newspaper reporting related to dietary advice. Design: Articles offering dietary advice from the top ten selling UK newspapers for a randomly selected week were assessed using two established evidence grading scales: developed by the World Cancer Research Fund (WCRF) and the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN). Results: Of 111 dietary health claims identified, 72% and 68% (assessed by WCRF and SIGN criteria respectively) had levels of evidence lower than the convincing or probable categories that are recommended for dietary health claims. Conclusions: Misreporting of dietary advice by UK newspapers is widespread and may contribute to public misconceptions about food and health.

Cooper, E. A. and H. Farid (2016). "Does the Sun revolve around the Earth? A comparison between the general public and online survey respondents in basic scientific knowledge." Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 146-153.	We conducted an online survey using a set of factual science questions that are commonly administered to assess fact-based scientific literacy. We report that the online population performed substantially better on this standard assessment than the traditional survey population. For example, it has been widely reported that 1 in 4 Americans does not know that the Earth revolves around the Sun, whereas among the online population, this ratio is reduced to 1 in 25. While new online platforms provide researchers with unprecedented ease of access to a large sample population for studying trends in public knowledge and attitudes, generalizing from online population samples to the US population at large poses a considerable challenge. We discuss the potential reasons for this discrepancy and the implications for conducting research online.

Cooper, G., et al. (2012). "Unravelling the Threads: Discourses of Sustainability and Consumption in an Online Forum." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(1): 101-118.	This article analyzes an online discussion that followed an article published by UK environmental activist and journalist George Monbiot in The Guardian online newspaper. The analysis addresses the ways in which participants in an online forum debate responded to the tensions and contradictions between lifestyle, consumption, and sustainability highlighted in the original article. The discursive construction of class, green political orientations, and identities; visions of "the good life"; and appeals to religion and science are highlighted throughout the analysis-as are the discursive strategies for positioning self, other, and audience in the debate. The argument emphasizes the heterogeneity of discursive positioning and reflects on the role of social media in the politics of consumption and sustainability, especially given the inherent reflexivity of web forums as online communicative forms.

Cooper, K. E. and E. C. Nisbet (2016). "Green Narratives: How Affective Responses to Media Messages Influence Risk Perceptions and Policy Preferences About Environmental Hazards." Science Communication 38(5): 626-654.	This study examined the relationships between narrative involvement, affect, risk perceptions, and environmental policy preferences. Experiment 1 involved a 3 (news, documentary, entertainment) x 2 (hydraulic fracturing, genetically modified organisms) mixed between- and within-subjects experiment. Results indicated a serial mediation model in which narrative involvement increased the likelihood of a negative affective response, in turn increasing risk perceptions and policy preferences for stricter regulation of environmental hazards. In Experiment 2, the pathway was tested for positively valenced content. Narrative involvement with positively valenced media produced a significantly lower negative affective response than negatively valenced media, but no difference terms of positive affect.

Corbett, J. B. (1998). "The environment as theme and package on a local television newscast." Science Communication 19(3): 222-237.	This study investigated 601 stories in a segment called Earth KARE on a local TV newscast to determine how such a theme of coverage presented the environment. Despite previous findings of the prominence of science in media coverage of the environment, Earth KARE presented the environment as a government story, both in terms of news sources (40 percent) and arena of action (54 percent). The majority of station resources-use of reporters, video, and chitchat-also was allocated to government stories. The constraints faced by news directors in efficiently producing a daily thematic segment with good audience draw may create a reliance on (and deference to) the planned, reliable information provided by government and secondarily by business.

Corbett, J. B. (2002). "Motivations to participate in riparian improvement programs - Applying the theory of planned behavior." Science Communication 23(3): 243-263.	This study utilized the theory of planned behavior; a model of attitudinal factors related to behavioral intention, to investigate the lack of participation in government-sponsored programs to conserve riparian areas. A telephone survey of 209 rural landowners whose property abutted a waterway revealed that financial motivations, past behaviors, exposure to government information, and self-efficacy predicted 29 percent of the variance in intent to participate in future conservation programs. The findings suggest that external constraints and social barriers (such as financial variables) are important moderators of perceived behavioral control and deserve closer scrutiny.

Corbett, J. B. (2005). "Altruism, self-interest, and the reasonable person model of environmentally responsible behavior." Science Communication 26(4): 368-389.	This study operationalized a new model of environmental behavior to test its utility in predicting the relatively difficult behavior of getting people out of their cars. The Reasonable Person Model of environmentally responsible behavior hypothesizes that a mix of self-interest, altruism, personal norms, desirable choices, and participatory problem solving are the best predictors of behavior. In a random sample telephone survey of drivers (N = 344) along the Wasatch Front, all independent variables were significantly correlated to behavior with the exception of one personal control measure. A multiple regression model found that 52 percent of the variance in environmentally responsible behavior was predicted by the independent variables (R-2 = .52, p < .001). However, none of the measures of personal control contributed significantly to the model.

Corbett, J. B. and J. L. Durfee (2004). "Testing public (Un) certainty of science - Media representations of global warming." Science Communication 26(2): 129-151.	This exploratory study examines whether readers' assessments of the certainty of scientific findings depend on characteristics of news stories. An experimental design tested whether adding controversy and/or context to a news story about global warming influenced readers' perceptions of its certainty. Respondents (N = 209) were randomly assigned to read one treatment and answer a questionnaire. Overall, there was a significant difference in readers' assessment of the certainty of global warming across treatments (F = 12.59, p =.00). The context treatment produced the highest level of certainty, about global warming and differed significantly from the control treatment (with neither context nor controversy) and from the controversy treatment. Control and controversy treatments resulted in the lowest levels of certainty. There was an interaction effect between treatment and environmental ideology upon certainty (F = 1.64, p =.03) and a correlation between environmental ideology and prior certainty about global warming (r =.35, p =.01), suggesting that those with proenvironmental ideology were less swayed by the treatments.

Corbett, J. B. and M. Mori (1999). "Gender-specific cancers, gender-specific reporters? Twenty-four years of network TV coverage." Science Communication 20(4): 395-408.	This research investigated the role of reporter gender in reporting about sensitive gender specific cancers. On ABC, CBS, and NBC national newscasts from 1972 through 1995, mat reporters presented 75 percent of all gender-specific cancer stories, delivered more stories over time, and delivered 96 percent of male-cancer stories and 72 percent of female-cancer stories. Female reporters delivered fewer female-cancer stories over rime and never broke the sensitivity barrier regarding male-specific cancers. Male reporters delivered cancer as a science story, focused on treatment and therapy, and mentioned more medical research,journals, and organizations. Female reporters were more likely to report on health policy or famous women with cancer.

Corin, S. E. and A. Atapattu (2018). "A case study demonstrates a democratic methodology for making risk-based decisions." Journal of Risk Research 21(9): 1093-1103.	Risk is a subjective notion allowing the boundaries between the role of a risk practitioner and a decision-maker to become blurred. A belief that the public misunderstands risk and the need to control the risk assessment process are two barriers to effective engagement. A lack of engagement and the ability to enable citizens to decide their own future can contribute to the controversy we see in important public debates. In our study, we surveyed four stakeholder groups in the New Zealand to determine how they each rated the risks and benefits of a case study on the three biophysical impacts of the economy, environment and human health. Our survey methodology incorporated a continuous scale along three axes and this design enabled costs and benefits to be traded-off between individuals, giving them a representative voice. We used these results to investigate whether or not it would be feasible to use such an approach to make decisions. Our results indicate that public decision-making is possible, which in this case broadly reflected agreement between the public and the official decision. Such an approach holds promise for expanding the role of public engagement and input into the risk assessment process.

Corin, S. E., et al. (2012). "Democracy and risk-based decision-making: the next step in public involvement." Journal of Risk Research 15(8): 1021-1026.	Risk assessment has struggled to reconcile public views and opinion with the results of science-based objective assessment. In this paper, we attempt to tease apart subjective and objective considerations that risk management decisions entail. Through the use of examples from the New Zealand Environmental Risk Management Authority, we argue that risk managers need to use quantitative tools in order to develop an objective understanding of the biophysical outcomes of an activity. Decision-making should then enter a phase where democratic methods are used to allow people to weigh these physical outcomes subjectively. We believe allowing subjective democratic decisions, based on objective reality, will help enable risk management to bridge gaps between practitioners and the public.

Cormick, C., et al. (2015). "What Do Science Communicators Talk About When They Talk About Science Communications? Engaging With the Engagers." Science Communication 37(2): 274-282.	A series of workshops on impediments and solutions to best practice in science communication in Australia not only provided insights into the diversity of the community of practice but also reflected discords between best practice and popular ideas among practitioners.

Cornell, J. (1999). "Report: Second World Conference of Science journalists meets in Budapest." Science Communication 21(2): 200-202.	The Second World Conference of Science Journalists was held 2-4 July 1999 in Budapest, Hungary, as a satellite conference to the World Conference on Science just preceding it. Following is a report on the conference by a member of the international organizing committee.

Cornell, J. (2000). "Report: Second World Conference of Science journalists meets in Budapest (vol 21, pg 200, 1999)." Science Communication 21(3): 314-314.
	
Cornia, A., et al. (2016). "Risk cultures and dominant approaches towards disasters in seven European countries." Journal of Risk Research 19(3): 288-304.	This paper builds upon the risk culture concept started with Mary Douglas' and Aaron Wildavsky's seminal work on risk and culture. Based upon the empirical results of a qualitative sociological study on sociocultural factors affecting risk perception and crisis communication in seven European countries, a theoretical model, illustrating how differences in disasters framing imply diverse approaches to risk and disaster management, is suggested. According to this framework, culturally bounded assumptions and conventions strongly influence how communities make sense of risks and hazards and how these communities consider some ways of dealing with disasters more appropriate than others. The framework suggested in this article distinguishes between risk cultures of a given society, which do not necessarily respond to nation states. In order to explain differences in how cultures deal with risks and disasters, and to define the main features of our typology, three main interrelated dimensions have been selected: disaster framing, trust in authorities and blaming. By analyzing differences and similarities in how people perceive and interpret disasters, as well as to whom the responsibility for risk prevention and crisis management is attributed, in seven European countries, three specific ideal types of risk cultures emerged: state-oriented risk culture, individual-oriented risk culture and fatalistic risk culture. Implications for crisis management and communication in case of a disaster will be addressed for each of these risk cultures.

Cortassa, C. (2016). "In science communication, why does the idea of a public deficit always return? The eternal recurrence of the public deficit." Public Understanding of Science 25(4): 447-459.	After several years of loud and clear rejection, the idea of a public cognitive deficit insistently reappears in the agenda of Science Communication and Public Understanding of Science studies. This essay addresses two different kinds of reason - practical and epistemic - converging at that point. In the first part, it will be argued that the hypothesis of the lack of knowledge among laypeople and its controversial relationships with their interests and attitudes towards science prevails because it is an intuitive and optimistic way to frame the gap between science and society and, therefore, to cope with its causes and consequences. In the second part, a deeper level of reasons will be examined, in order to show that the persistence of the idea has its roots in the objective epistemic asymmetry between scientists and the public, the scope of which is not always properly judged. To recognize this asymmetry as a previous condition for their interactions may help to surpass the byzantine debate: deficit yes or no and open up original questions for the field, summarized in the closing remarks.

Cortinas-Rovira, S., et al. (2015). "Science journalists' perceptions and attitudes to pseudoscience in Spain." Public Understanding of Science 24(4): 450-465.	Using interviews and questionnaires, we explored the perceptions and attitudes of 49 Spanish science journalists regarding pseudoscience. Pseudoscience, understood as false knowledge that endeavours to pass as science, is a controversial and complex matter that potentially poses a risk to society. Given that concern over this issue has grown in recent years in Spain, our aim was to evaluate how pseudoscience operates in journalistic practice in Spanish media. Our data reveal not only a lack of editorial policies in regard to pseudoscience, but also the existence of a significant number of science journalists who make light of the potential threat implied by the pseudosciences in the media. Some journalists point to the lack of scientific training of editors and media managers as one of the reasons for the proliferation of the pseudosciences.

Costa-Font, J. and E. Mossialos (2005). "'Ambivalent' individual preferences towards biotechnology in the European Union: products or processes?" Journal of Risk Research 8(4): 341-354.	Significant ambivalence is found when examining the explanatory dimensions of attitudes towards biotechnology in the European Union; individuals' decision-making is influenced by their perception of significant benefits and risks as well as moral concerns. In quantitatively analyzing the determinants of attitudes, we argue that it might be misleading to interpret attitudes towards new biotechnology applications without taking into account the existence of significant ambivalence in revealed preferences. This paper empirically examines the magnitude and the impact of ambivalence in explaining support for two specific biotech applications (Genetically Modified (GM) food and GM medicines). The data employed are from the 1999 Eurobarometer Survey 52.1. Results reveal that although between 35 and 45% of respondents display ambivalent attitudes towards biotechnology applications, ambivalence primarily affects less supportive attitudes, and this result seems robust among specific biotech applications. Ambivalence is expected to continue to play a key role in determining individual attitudes as long as available information continues to be limited. Furthermore, ambivalence, as well as attitudes to biotechnology applications, seems to be associated with the dimensions of the technology itself. Therefore, in the design of risk communication policies, decision makers should ensure that individuals are well informed if public perceptions are to be taken into account in public policy formation.

Cotton, M. and P. Devine-Wright (2012). "Making electricity networks "visible": Industry actor representations of "publics" and public engagement in infrastructure planning." Public Understanding of Science 21(1): 17-35.	This interview study with UK electricity distribution and transmission network operators (DNO and TNO) and the regulator Ofgem, examines how key industry actors conceptualise "publics," "stakeholders" and "customers" and how these conceptualisations subsequently inform their engagement practices with these heterogeneous groups. The results show that regulatory changes to the structure of distribution networks have encouraged greater levels of "stakeholder" involvement. However, DNO regional monopoly powers and the regulatory environment serve to conflate network actors' representations of "the public" with "customers," and also "hides" DNO roles in a manner that precludes direct citizen engagement. TNO respondents employ public exhibitions in transmission line siting, although at a stage "downstream" in the decision-making process whereby citizens have little decisional influence. We conclude that network operators adopt the rhetoric of deliberative engagement whilst lacking a clear rationale and effective means to incorporate citizen perspectives in long-term network development or specific infrastructure siting proposals.

Courvoisier, N., et al. (2013). "Man-made black holes and Big Bangs: Diffusion and integration of scientific information into everyday thinking." Public Understanding of Science 22(3): 287-303.	Drawing on Social Representations Theory, this study investigates focalisation and anchoring during the diffusion of information concerning the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the particle accelerator at the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN). We hypothesised that people focus on striking elements of the message, abandoning others, that the nature of the initial information affects diffusion of information, and that information is anchored in prior attitudes toward CERN and science. A serial reproduction experiment with two generations and four chains of reproduction diffusing controversial versus descriptive information about the LHC shows a reduction of information through generations, the persistence of terminology regarding the controversy and a decrease of other elements for participants exposed to polemical information. Concerning anchoring, positive attitudes toward CERN and science increase the use of expert terminology unrelated to the controversy. This research highlights the relevance of a social representational approach in the public understanding of science.

Cousin, M. E., et al. (2011). "The impact of specific information provision on base station siting preferences." Journal of Risk Research 14(6): 703-715.	When it comes to the new siting of a mobile communication base station in one's neighbourhood, some people react with rejection because they fear health consequences from the emitted high-frequency radiation. Most people would prefer to site base stations outside residential areas, but from a public health perspective, this may result in even more radiation for the phoning population. Therefore, authorities are interested in improving the current base station siting processes. The question arises whether specific knowledge enhancement would influence base station siting preferences or whether affective or emotional components (due to the scientific uncertainties involved) would overrule the influence of such attempts. To answer this question, an experimental study with a convenience sample of Swiss citizens (N = 228) was conducted. Participants were confronted with one of three texts: a neutral text (control group), an information booklet about mobile communication and an emotionally charged newspaper article that reported a conflict about the siting of a new base station. After reading the text, participants filled out a questionnaire about their perception of mobile communication and their base station siting preferences. Reading the information booklet increased participants' knowledge and led to some perceptual changes of base stations and mobile phones. Importantly, participants reading the booklet were able to transfer their knowledge to a base station siting task and found locations that would emit less radiation for the phoning population. Implications and limitations of these results are discussed.

Cousin, M. E. and M. Siegrist (2010). "Risk perception of mobile communication: a mental models approach." Journal of Risk Research 13(5): 599-620.	Some lay people confronted with a new base station project fear serious health consequences from the high-frequency radiation, while experts consider exposure under the current international standards as unproblematic. These conflictive estimations may be attributed to the different mental models of lay people and experts. Less is known about lay people's knowledge in regard to mobile communication and their intuitive understanding of the associated health risks. An adaptation of the 'Mental Models Approach' was used to reveal lay people's beliefs about mobile communication and to learn more about lay people's information requirements, potential knowledge gaps, and misconceptions. Through the means of open interviews with Swiss experts (N = 16), lay people (N = 16), and base station opponents (N = 15), different mental models were constructed and evaluated. Comparisons between the expert and the lay groups showed several qualitative differences in all identified knowledge domains. Knowledge gaps in regard to changing exposure magnitudes due to the interaction patterns of cell phones and base stations as well as misconceptions about regulation issues and scientific processes were found in both lay groups. In addition, lack of trust in responsible actors and disaffection with base station location processes were mentioned. The reported qualitative insights may be useful for the improvement of further risk communication tools.

Cousin, M. E. and M. Siegrist (2011). "Cell Phones and Health Concerns: Impact of Knowledge and Voluntary Precautionary Recommendations." Risk Analysis 31(2): 301-311.	The article explores how voluntary precautionary recommendations for cell phone usage influence people's health concerns and behavior. An experimental study using a sample of Swiss citizens (N = 408) was conducted. Three different versions of a newly developed booklet, which focused on common misconceptions in regard to mobile communication, and an existing booklet were tested. The experimental design addressed questions of the potential effects of knowledge, precautionary recommendations, and sender identity on health concerns and transfer of the proposed recommendations. Participants' perceptions were measured three times: immediately before and after reading the booklet, and two weeks later. The reading of the booklets increased participants' knowledge considerably and led to perceptual changes. In regard to cell phones, health concerns increased after the reading and stayed at a higher level even after two weeks. The negative perception of base stations, in contrast, tended to decrease. Neither the identity of the sender nor the omission of precautionary recommendations had significant effects on health concerns. Provision of specific recommendations enhanced readers' behavioral changes. Confrontation with information per se, and not precautionary recommendations, influenced the public's health concerns. These changes should not prevent the provision of precautionary recommendations because, in the face of scientific uncertainty, these are the only means through which to enable users to make informed decisions.

Covi, M. P. and D. J. Kain (2016). "Sea-Level Rise Risk Communication: Public Understanding, Risk Perception, and Attitudes about Information." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(5): 612-633.	We present the results of a study using a document-based evaluation method to better understand how residents in vulnerable coastal areas respond to risk communications about sea-level rise (SLR) and to determine whether communications localized for specific populations improve reception. Similar to climate change communication, SLR risk communication presents challenges involving complex science, uncertainty, invisibility, and politicization. To be comprehensible and persuasive, risk messages must be appropriately framed and visually compelling and must take into account risk perceptions and diverse viewpoints. Our approach involves assessing people's encounters with actual risk messages to determine their reactions and responses. Participants in this study had difficulty understanding information and expressed attitudes including fear, fatalism, skepticism, and loss. SLR risks were also perceived as both temporally and spatially distant, creating a challenge for communicators trying to convey a sense of urgency. We conclude by considering the implications of audience-focused research for SLR risk communication.

Cox, J. R. (2010). "Beyond Frames: Recovering the Strategic in Climate Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(1): 122-133.	Recent calls for communication scholars and practitioners to identify effective communication means for mobilizing constituencies to address climate change often fall to distinguish between communicative acts that "mobilize'' and mobilization that enables a particular end. The latter presupposes an account of the intentional or strategic alignment of mobilization, that is, the predicted or assumed relationships among a mobilized public, the mode(s) of influence or leverage this creates, and the expected consequences of such influence, i.e., how specific communicative efforts are related to outcomes or "effects'' within a system. This essay argues that the neglect of strategic alignments in some recent climate communication campaigns have caused these campaigns to be non-adaptive at the scale and/or urgency required. Drawing on case studies of the 2007 Step It Up initiative and the Sierra Club's "Beyond Coal'' campaign, the essay proposes viewing the strategic as an heuristic for identifying openings within networks of contingent relationships and the potential of certain communicative efforts to interrupt or leverage change within systems of power.

Cox, L. A. (2007). "Does concern-driven risk management provide a viable alternative to QRA?" Risk Analysis 27(1): 27-43.	This article discusses a concept of concern-driven risk management, in which qualitative expert judgments about whether concerns warrant specified risk management interventions are used in preference to quantitative risk assessment (QRA) to guide risk management decisions. Where QRA emphasizes formal quantitative assessment of the probable consequences caused by the recommended actions, and comparison to the probable consequences of alternatives, including the status quo, concern-driven risk management instead emphasizes perceived urgency or severity of the situation motivating recommended interventions. In many instances, especially those involving applications of the precautionary principle, no formal quantification or comparison of probable consequences for alternative decisions is seen as being necessary ( or, perhaps, possible or desirable) prior to implementation of risk management measures. Such concern-driven risk management has been recommended by critics of QRA in several areas of applied risk management. Based on case studies and psychological literature on the empirical performance of judgment-based approaches to decision making under risk and uncertainty, we conclude that, although concern-driven risk management has several important potential political and psychological advantages over QRA, it is not clear that it performs better than ( or as well as) QRA in identifying risk management interventions that successfully protect human health or achieve other desired consequences. Therefore, those who advocate replacing QRA with concern-driven alternatives, such as expert judgment and consensus decision processes, should assess whether their recommended alternatives truly outperform QRA, by the criterion of producing preferred consequences, before rejecting the QRA paradigm for practical applications.

Cox, L. A. (2013). "Caveats for Causal Interpretations of Linear Regression Coefficients for Fine Particulate (PM2.5) Air Pollution Health Effects." Risk Analysis 33(12): 2111-2125.	Recent linear regression analyses have concluded that decreasing levels of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) air pollution have increased life expectancy in the United States. These findings have left unresolved questions about the causal relation between reductions in PM2.5 levels and changes in cause-specific (especially, cardiovascular disease, CVD) mortality risks. Their robustness (e.g., sensitivity to deletion of a single data point) has also been questioned. We investigate these issues in the National Mortality and Morbidity Air Pollution Study database. Comparing changes in PM2.5 levels and cause-specific mortality rates for elderly people in 24 cities between two periods separated by a decade (1987-1989 and 1999-2000) shows that reductions in PM2.5 were significantly associated with increases in respiratory mortality rates and with decreases in CVD mortality rates. CVD and all-cause mortality risks fell equally for all months of the year over this period, but average PM2.5 levels increased significantly for winter months. This casts doubts on the causal interpretation that declines in PM2.5 over the decade caused reduced short-term mortality risks. Nonlinear regression suggests that reduced or negative marginal health benefits are associated with reductions of PM2.5 below 1999-2000 levels (about 15 g/m(3)). Such nonlinear relations imply that risk communication statements that project a constant incremental reduction in mortality risks per unit reduction in PM2.5 do not adequately reflect the realistic possibility of nonlinear exposure-response relations and diminishing returns to further exposure reductions.

Cox, P., et al. (2003). "The use of mental models in chemical risk protection: Developing a generic workplace methodology." Risk Analysis 23(2): 311-324.	We adopted a comparative approach to evaluate and extend a generic methodology to analyze the different sets of beliefs held about chemical hazards in the workplace. Our study mapped existing knowledge structures about the risks associated with the use of perchloroethylene and rosin-based solder flux in differing workplaces. "Influence diagrams" were used to represent beliefs held by chemical experts; "user models" were developed from data elicited from open-ended interviews with the workplace users of the chemicals. The juxtaposition of expert and user understandings of chemical risks enabled us to identify knowledge gaps and misunderstandings and to reinforce appropriate sets of safety beliefs and behavior relevant to chemical risk communications. By designing safety information to be more relevant to the workplace context Of users, we believe that employers and employees may gain improved knowledge about chemical hazards in the workplace, such that better chemical risk management, self-protection, and informed decision making develop over time.

Cox, R. (2007). "Nature's "Crisis Disciplines": Does Environmental Communication Have an Ethical Duty?" Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(1): 5-20.	This essay proposes a heuristic conservation between the emerging field of environmental communication and the "crisis discipline'' of conservation biology in order to generate a set of ethical postulates for research, teaching, and professional consultation. To the extent that social/symbolic representations of "environment'' embody interested orientations, such discourses potentially constrain and/or enable societal responses to environmental signals, including signs of ecological crises. The essay argues that, implicit in this and other functional premises, lies a principal ethical duty of environmental communication: the obligation to enhance the ability of society to respond appropriately to environmental signals relevant to the well-being of both human communities and natural biological systems.

Cox, R. (2015). "Scale, Complexity, and Communicative Systems." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 370-378.
	
Coyle, F. and J. Fairweather (2005). "Space, time and nature: exploring the public reception of biotechnology in New Zealand." Public Understanding of Science 14(2): 143-161.	Nature is widely acknowledged to be a fluid, contested, material-semiotic construction, historically and spatially grounded. This is certainly the case for New Zealand, where a number of constructions of nature have been mobilized as a means to make judgments over the viability of particular biotechnologies that have entered into public debate. In this paper, we utilize Mikhail Bakhtin's space-time matrix, the chronotope, to explore a series of complementary nature-narratives that have been mobilized as a moral basis for making judgments over the acceptability of a series of exemplars of novel biotechnologies that were presented to participants in eleven national focus groups. We argue that it is the specific space-time manipulations that characterize these sometimes overlapping narrative constructions that are used to justify reactions to novel biotechnologies.

Cozen, B. (2010). "This Pear is a Rhetorical Tool: Food Imagery in Energy Company Advertising." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(3): 355-370.	This essay examines the food imagery in three energy company advertising campaigns-Shell's "Real Energy," Chevron's "Human Energy TM," and Waste Management's "Think Green (R)" - arguing that food images help essentialize the energy product. The advertising discourse relies on the historical context that ties food to energy through a growth model. This discourse likens each to the point of exchange from "raw" nature to "cooked" culture: food fills bodies as energy fills societies. The advertisements naturalize the companies' essential role in supplying substance to bodies. By examining the connotations of energy as it relates to food, we not only can further identify the rhetorical strength of the "energy" product, but this paper also hopes to further critical inquiry into the general ties between food production and power supply production, particularly in relation to water use.

Cozen, B. (2013). "Mobilizing Artists: Green Patriot Posters, Visual Metaphors, and Climate Change Activism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(2): 297-314.	This essay examines the Canary Project's Green Patriot Posters campaign as activist art that collectively comments on the cultural coherence of our current relations to the environment, particularly in terms of global warming, sustainability, and the concept of linear economic growth. Aspiring to bring together artists under the eco-activist umbrella, the Canary Project relies on an old WWII-inspired frame with a narrow premise of that period's conservation efforts. Within this framework, a range of visual designs question, subvert, and promote continued economic growth and an ontology that more equals better. An analysis of the up-down orientational metaphors underscores a typology of these valuations and reveals one way to assess implications of such artistic efforts. That is, artistic expressions adapt and play with the contingent nature of metaphors, offering elaborations, extensions, and alternatives on basic structural elements and, hence, remark on how we orient ourselves and productively imagine being of/in the world anew.

Cozen, B., et al. (2018). "Energy Communication: Theory and Praxis Towards a Sustainable Energy Future." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(3): 289-294.	This essay comments and expands upon an emerging area of research, energy communication, that shares with environmental communication the fraught commitment to simultaneously study communication as an ordinary yet potentially transformative practice, and a strategic endeavour to catalyse change. We begin by defining and situating energy communication within ongoing work on the discursive dimensions of energy extraction, production, distribution, and consumption. We then offer three generative directions for future research related to energy transitions as communicative processes: analysing campaigns' strategic efforts, critically theorizing energy's transnational power dynamics, and theorizing the energy democracy movement.

Craig, G. (2010). "Everyday Epiphanies: Environmental Networks in Eco-Makeover Lifestyle Television." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(2): 172-189.	This article offers an analysis of the New Zealand eco-makeover program, WA$TED! It outlines how eco-makeover programs are an emerging sub-genre of the makeover phenomenon of lifestyle television where people and homes are subject to transformation by lifestyle experts, culminating in the revelation of the transformation at the end of the program. The article argues that the featured families in WA$TED! experience oeveryday epiphanieso where they learn about their implication in existing environmental networks and they are ushered into new, more environmentally friendly networks. Drawing on actor-network theory, the article deconstructs the featured environmental networks, examining the roles of the program hosts, the transformations in the subjectivities of family members, and the functions of everyday household technologies and objects. The article argues that the significance of the program resides in the way the revelations make visible previously concealed linkages between families, everyday objects and practices, and the broader social and environmental domain.

Craig, G. (2016). "Political Participation and Pleasure in Green Lifestyle Journalism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(1): 122-141.	This article examines the reportage of green lifestyle practices across the online sites of major British newspapers. The articulation of green lifestyle journalism in the study is suggestive of its complex identity, given its implication in existing orders of consumption while also expressive of emerging everyday practices that potentially and variously challenge those orders of consumption. The study enquires into whether such green lifestyle journalism stories are, in fact, reported across different online sites, and if so, in which publications and how such stories are classified within online menus. It also examines the range of reported environmental lifestyle practices and how they are attributed with meaning, including their engagement with the concept of pleasure and its association with political participation. The study reveals that the pleasures associated with sustainable living are often marginalized, and instead an ethical consumer is commonly posited who is variously cognitively deficient, worried about the environmental consequences of their everyday behavior, or concerned about their inability to realize their desires to engage in sustainable lifestyle practices. The article also examines those instances when the pleasures of a more sustainable lifestyle are represented as deriving from the implementation of environmental practices and technologies in everyday, domestic contexts, and also when they are illustrated as the product of civic and political engagements with issues of sustainability.

Crall, A. W., et al. (2013). "The impacts of an invasive species citizen science training program on participant attitudes, behavior, and science literacy." Public Understanding of Science 22(6): 745-764.	Citizen science can make major contributions to informal science education by targeting participants' attitudes and knowledge about science while changing human behavior towards the environment. We examined how training associated with an invasive species citizen science program affected participants in these areas. We found no changes in science literacy or overall attitudes between tests administered just before and after a one-day training program, matching results from other studies. However, we found improvements in science literacy and knowledge using context-specific measures and in self-reported intention to engage in pro-environmental activities. While we noted modest change in knowledge and attitudes, we found comparison and interpretation of these data difficult in the absence of other studies using similar measures. We suggest that alternative survey instruments are needed and should be calibrated appropriately to the pre-existing attitudes, behavior, and levels of knowledge in these relatively sophisticated target groups.

Cramer, J. M. and K. A. Foss (2009). "Baudrillard and Our Destiny with the Natural World: Fatal Strategies for Environmental Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(3): 298-316.	Drawing on the writings of Jean Baudrillard, the purpose of this essay is to suggest a set of communication practices that promote a different way of thinking about the earth-human relationship. Baudrillard's "fatal strategies" are developed into concepts of intersubjectivity, seduction, and sorcery, which when used in conjunction with more traditional, logical rhetorical appeals, can produce powerful appeals for environmental change. To illustrate, we explore how these strategies are used in two exemplars of environmental discourse: Rachel Carson's Silent Spring and Al Gore's documentary, An Inconvenient Truth.

Crawley, C. E. (2007). "Localized debates of agricultural biotechnology in community newspapers - A quantitative content analysis of media frames and sources." Science Communication 28(3): 314-346.	This research is a quantitative content analysis of agricultural biotechnology coverage appearing in a collection of community newspapers in Northern California and Missouri between 1992 and 2004. It examines the similarities and differences in news media frames used to focus the debate at the local level, and evaluates the frequency and range of dominant political and social actors as news sources. Newspaper coverage in some community newspapers frames the story in more complex and diverse ways and includes a wider range of voices than has been reported in studies of coverage in the national, elite press. Oppositional viewpoints exist in some local newspapers, perhaps more so than in national news.

Critchley, C., et al. (2017). "Identifying public expectations of genetic biobanks." Public Understanding of Science 26(6): 671-687.	Understanding public priorities for biobanks is vital for maximising utility and efficiency of genetic research and maintaining respect for donors. This research directly assessed the relative importance the public place on different expectations of biobanks. Quantitative and qualitative results from a national sample of 800 Australians revealed that the majority attributed more importance to protecting privacy and ethical conduct than maximising new healthcare benefits, which was in turn viewed as more important than obtaining specific consent, benefit sharing, collaborating and sharing data. A latent class analysis identified two distinct classes displaying different patterns of expectations. One placed higher priority on behaviours that respect the donor (n=623), the other on accelerating science (n=278). Additional expectations derived from qualitative data included the need for biobanks to be transparent and to prioritise their research focus, educate the public and address commercialisation.

Critchley, C., et al. (2015). "Public reaction to direct-to-consumer online genetic tests: Comparing attitudes, trust and intentions across commercial and conventional providers." Public Understanding of Science 24(6): 731-750.	The success of personalised medicine depends upon the public's embracing genetic tests. Tests that claim to predict an individual's future health can now be accessed via online companies outside of conventional health regulations. This research assessed the extent to which the public embrace direct-to-consumer (DTC) genetic tests relative to those obtained by a conventional medical practitioner (MP). It also examined the reasons for differences across providers using a randomised experimental telephone survey of 1000 Australians. Results suggest that people were significantly less likely to approve of, and order a DTC genetic test administered by a company compared to a MP because they were less trusting of companies' being able to protect their privacy and provide them with access to genetic expertise and counselling. Markets for DTC genetic tests provided by companies would therefore significantly increase if trust in privacy protection and access to expertise are enhanced through regulation.

Critchley, C. R. (2008). "Public opinion and trust in scientists: the role of the research context, and the perceived motivation of stem cell researchers." Public Understanding of Science 17(3): 309-327.	This research examined why the public may be less supportive of stem cell research when conducted in a private compared to public research context. A representative sample ( n = 403) of Australians who were exposed to information relating to privately funded scientists were significantly less likely to approve of stem cell research than those who were presented with a scenario of scientists working within a publicly funded University ( n = 401) and a control condition ( n = 404). Mediation analyses revealed that the decrease in approval was primarily associated with the tendency of privately funded scientists to be trusted less than their publicly funded counterparts. Public trust in University scientists was also found to be higher than that of private scientists because publicly funded scientists were perceived to be motivated more by benevolence, and more likely to produce benefits that will be accessible to the public. While private scientists were perceived to be more self interested than public scientists, perceived self interest did not explain the decrease in trust. There were also no significant differences across research contexts for the perceived competence of scientists or the likelihood that stem cell research would result in cures for diseases. The implications of these results are discussed in relation to the possible decrease in public trust that may occur alongside the increasing privatization of academic enquiry, and particularly controversial scientific research.

Critchley, C. R. and D. Nicol (2011). "Understanding the impact of commercialization on public support for scientific research: Is it about the funding source or the organization conducting the research?" Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 347-366.	This research examines the influence of commercialization on support for scientific research. It compares the effects of the funding source with the type of organization on public support for stem cell research. Using a national Australian telephone survey (n = 1000), the results reveal that support drops significantly when scientific research is funded by private rather than public interests, and even more so when it is conducted in a private company rather than a public university. Respondents' preference for university research was enhanced if they trusted universities, distrusted major companies and believed that the research would be beneficial. A preference for public funding was also associated with lower trust in companies and a belief that the research would benefit people. Implications of these results are discussed in relation to the challenge of maintaining public support in an increasingly commercialized research environment.

Crne-Hladnik, H., et al. (2009). "Assessment of Slovene secondary school students' attitudes to biotechnology in terms of usefulness, moral acceptability and risk perception." Public Understanding of Science 18(6): 747-758.	Quantitative and qualitative studies among 469 high school students of average age 17 years were conducted. The students' attitudes to four practical applications of biotechnology were examined: genetically modified plants (Bt corn), genetically modified animals (salmon), and hemophilia germ line and somatic gene therapy. Each of the four applications was examined from three different viewpoints: usefulness, moral acceptability and risk perception. Bt corn production proved to be the most acceptable in terms of both usefulness and risk perception. Values for genetically modified salmon and germ line gene therapy were comparable, but much lower than those for the other two applications; this was true for both usefulness and moral acceptability. In addition, students found genetically modified salmon to be ethically much less acceptable than Bt corn. Significant gender differences were observed in the case of germ line gene therapy and genetically modified salmon.

Crockett, J. R. (1997). "Training and development for informal science learning." Public Understanding of Science 6(1): 87-101.	This exploratory study assessed the need for training and development of both administrators and education directors working in informal learning environments in the United States. Further, the study identified useful and feasible methods to meet these needs. Finally, it suggested that informal science learning is understood as a collective entity.
This study triangulated, or coordinated, various research and data analysis methods to provide a more effective base for understanding the proposed activities. Phase 1 consisted of interviewing persons knowledgeable about informal science learning. These data were analysed qualitatively and used to develop the Phase 2 survey, which was administered to practitioners in these environments. Data from the Phase 2 survey were measured quantitatively.
Although results suggest that some kind of training is necessary for administrators, significantly more people strongly agree that education directors need training specifically oriented towards informal science learning. Training for either administrators or education directors should include development of the following skills and attributes: personnel skills, fund-raising skills, financial skills, enthusiasm about doing science with others, knowledge of diverse publics, ability to interact with diverse publics, and volunteer interaction skills.
Data indicate that several methods would be very useful and feasible for training both administrators and education directors. These methods include. on-the-job training, a yearly one-week training activity, a degree program in 1 related field combined with a specific internship, and a series of training courses or seminars.
Data suggest that informal science learning can be understood as a collective entity using descriptors such as: industry, field, profession and discipline. However, this study suggests that using environmental characteristics of informal science learning contexts (instead of conceptualising them as the opposite of formal education) may be valuable for better understanding these environments. This understanding might increase the attention given to informal science learning environments as integral components in a holistic view of human learning.

Crona, B. I. and J. N. Parker (2011). "Network Determinants of Knowledge Utilization: Preliminary Lessons From a Boundary Organization." Science Communication 33(4): 448-471.	This study examines the socio-organizational model of science-policy knowledge transfer. Using social network analysis, the authors study how interactions between researchers-policy makers affect utilization of research by policy makers in a boundary organization designed to mediate between research and policy communities. Two types of social interactions with independent effects on utilization are identified. Policy makers with more direct contacts with researchers are more likely to utilize research. Policy makers interacting more with other policy makers regarding research are also more likely to utilize it. This indicates the importance of policy makers' embeddedness in social networks and the importance of external reputation of boundary organizations for successful knowledge transfer.

Crowell, A. and C. Schunn (2014). "Scientifically literate action: Key barriers and facilitators across context and content." Public Understanding of Science 23(6): 718-733.	Scientific literacy can also be described as a level of public understanding of science that encourages one to act in concert with scientific consensus. Investigating actions concerned with environmental conservation, we examine the context specificity of this form of scientifically literate action and the differential motivations that predict such action across contexts. We report on a large sample of employees of a mixed urban/rural county in the USA, representing a diverse range of careers, who completed an anonymous survey about their environmental conservation actions at home, at work and in the public sphere. Results indicate that individuals engage at different action levels overall and for different reasons across contexts; limited support was found for the importance of perceived knowledge attainment ability in predicting scientifically informed actions. Implications for policy and program designers and scholars interested in scientific literacy are discussed.

Crowther, B. (2001). "Has feminism changed science?" Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 146-148.
	
Crumpton, A. C. (2002). "Ivory bridges: Connecting science and society." Public Understanding of Science 11(3): 306-307.
	
Culliton, B. J. (1998). "In memoriam William D. Carey." Science Communication 20(2): 271-272.
	
Cunningham, J. A., et al. (2000). "Disseminating a treatment program to outpatient addiction treatment agencies in Ontario - A case study." Science Communication 22(2): 154-172.	Sixty outpatient addiction treatment agencies in Ontario, Canada, participated in a case study exploring the factors related to the adoption of research-evaluated treatment technologies. The agencies received free training in a manual-based brief outpatient treatment program. At a twelve-month follow-up period, managers were interviewed to assess the proportion of agencies using the treatment package and the factors encouraging or discouraging their agencies' use of the program. While the dissemination was a success (49 percent of agencies had used the treatment program and 83 percent had used at least some of the tools), questions remain as to,why some agencies adopted the treatment package while others did not.

Cuppen, E., et al. (2009). "Bias in the exchange of arguments: the case of scientists' evaluation of lay viewpoints on GM food." Public Understanding of Science 18(5): 591-606.	Most perspectives on public participation share the notion that dialogues should be open, allowing participants to articulate and evaluate different views and knowledge claims. We hypothesize that participants' evaluation of claims may be biased because participants have a preference for a particular type or source of a claim. This would hamper an open dialogue. We tested the effect of three variables on scientists' evaluation of claims of the general public about GM food: the claim's favorability towards GM food, the phrasing, and the source of the claim. Results are based on a survey-experiment among 73 biotechnology-scientists. Biased processing occurred when scientists evaluated claims. Claims that were corresponding with the attitude of the scientists and that were phrased in a cognitive way were evaluated more positively than claims that were contrasting the attitude of the scientists and that were phrased in an affective way. Contrary to our expectation, scientists evaluated claims of the public more positively than claims of experts.

Currie-Mueller, J. L. (2018). "Pointing fingers across the tracks: an examination of strategic messages in the Lac-Megantic rail disaster." Journal of Risk Research 21(10): 1197-1216.	The oil industry transports crude oil via rail due to increasing demand. Though convenient, this can be dangerous, as many railways travel through populated regions, placing individuals in close range at risk of danger and death during a train derailment. In 2013, the deadliest rail disaster to happen in Canada in 140years occurred when a Montreal, Maine & Atlantic (MMA) train carrying 7.7ml of petroleum crude oil broke loose in Nantes, Quebec, and traveled towards Lac-Megantic, Quebec. The train derailed and exploded in the city's center, instantly killed 47 people, destroyed downtown, and forced the evacuation of over 2000 residents. The disaster prompted safety and criminal investigations, and litigation for personal, economic, and ecological reparations. This study uses dialectical tensions of strategic communication decision-making to examine the crisis and post-crisis stages of the event to determine how the tensions of organizational responsibility and emotional connection intersected during the crisis. Further, the impact of the crisis at an industry level and the resulting industry-wide lessons learned are revealed. Results were twofold: The tensions intersected with one another; and in socially stigmatized industries, organizational learning can occur on an industry-wide level. Tensions intersected when insensitive communication and messages disowning responsibility for the event initially occurred, and also later, when sensitive communication and taking ownership of the event were communicated. Learning occurred via observation, and actions were implemented in similar organizations in direct response of the event. In addition, regulations were created in direct response and implemented in both Canada and the United States. The study offers implications, discusses the complexity of transnational crises, and calls for future study of interacting tensions of strategic communication decision-making in order to understand how inherent tensions in a crisis situation prompt certain organizational responses to crises.

Curtis, V. (2014). "Public Engagement Through the Development of Science-Based Computer Games: The Wellcome Trust's "Gamify Your PhD" Initiative." Science Communication 36(3): 379-387.	New developments in digital technologies are enabling scientists to explore novel avenues of engagement beyond face-to-face approaches. "Gamifying" science through the creation of computer games based on scientific research is part of this trend. Recently, the Wellcome Trust held a competitive "hackfest" called "Gamify Your PhD." Six finalists were selected to develop their research into a computer game with the help of professional games developers. I was able to observe this event with the aim of exploring the collaboration between scientists and games developers and observing how science-based computer games can be used to engage the wider public.

Curtis, V. (2015). "Motivation to Participate in an Online Citizen Science Game: A Study of Foldit." Science Communication 37(6): 723-746.	Online citizen science projects have the potential to engage thousands of participants with scientific research. A small number of projects such as Foldit use an online computer game format. Motivation to participate in Foldit was investigated in a group of 37 players using an online survey, semistructured interviews, and participant observation. Results suggest that contributing to scientific research and an interest in science were among the most important motivations for participation. Interaction with others within the community of participants and the intellectual challenge of the game were also key for the continuing involvement of this group of regular contributors.

da Rosa, V. L. and J. Solomon (1998). "When science and the public meet: training for genetic counseling." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 271-284.	Genetic counseling is beginning to be recognized as a very complex endeavor, as is its training. Attempts to list the separate purposes to be achieved, like the findings of research and evaluation of the process, have been unsatisfactory and even contradictory. These attempts are compared with somewhat similar results in quite different fields of the public understanding of science. The paper discusses these results in the context of first-year and post-graduate courses in human genetics given in a Brazilian university. We suggest that the students' reactions to genetic counseling may be better understood on a two domain model of knowing, and that an explicit understanding of this perspective might be of assistance to trainee genetic counselors while they are learning how to help clients more effectively.

Dahinden, U. (2002). "Biotechnology in Switzerland - Frames in a heated debate." Science Communication 24(2): 184-197.	The public debate over biotechnology has been especially intense in Switzerland. The frame theory is introduced as a promising approach for better understanding this controversy. One shortcoming of current frame research is the diversity of frame typologies. An attempt to compare and integrate several frame typologies is presented. The theoretical analysis suggests that most of the frames are not issue specific but of a more general nature. The empirical section presents the framing of biotechnology over the past thirty years, during which increasing conflicts paralleled a higher diversity of frames in the media.

Dahinden, U. (2002). "Biotechnology: From inter-science to international controversies." Public Understanding of Science 11(2): 87-92.
	
Dahlstrom, M. F., et al. (2012). "Precision of Information, Sensational Information, and Self-Efficacy Information as Message-Level Variables Affecting Risk Perceptions." Risk Analysis 32(1): 155-166.	Studies that investigate how the mass media cover risk issues often assume that certain characteristics of content are related to specific risk perceptions and behavioral intentions. However, these relationships have seldom been empirically assessed. This study tests the influence of three message-level media variablesrisk precision information, sensational information, and self-efficacy informationon perceptions of risk, individual worry, and behavioral intentions toward a pervasive health risk. Results suggest that more precise risk information leads to increased risk perceptions and that the effect of sensational information is moderated by risk precision information. Greater self-efficacy information is associated with greater intention to change behavior, but none of the variables influence individual worry. The results provide a quantitative understanding of how specific characteristics of informational media content can influence individuals responses to health threats of a global and uncertain nature.

Dahlstrom, M. F. and S. S. Ho (2012). "Ethical Considerations of Using Narrative to Communicate Science." Science Communication 34(5): 592-617.	This article discusses three ethical considerations science communicators face when considering narrative as a communication technique for science policy contexts: (a) What is the underlying purpose of using narrative: comprehension or persuasion? (b) What are the appropriate levels of accuracy to maintain? (c) Should narrative be used at all? These considerations intersect with perceptions of the appropriate roles of communication and of scientists within democracy. By providing a clearer articulation of these ethical considerations, the authors hope that narrative can become a more useful communication technique toward informed science policy decisions.

Dahlstrom, M. F. and S. Rosenthal (2018). "Third-Person Perception of Science Narratives: The Case of Climate Change Denial." Science Communication 40(3): 340-365.	Science communicators are increasingly recognizing the potential of narratives to reach and influence audiences. However, do audiences recognize and consider this tactic when evaluating how such messages influence themselves and others? This study compares third-person perceptions of persuasive narrative and nonnarrative messages in a climate change context. Results suggest that individuals are aware of the influence of narratives and are able to resist this influence, but this is only when they perceive a message as having negative influence. Otherwise, individuals underestimate the influence of narratives on themselves. These findings add an audience-centered perspective to the current discussions on incorporating narratives within science communication.

Dahlstrom, M. F. and D. A. Scheufele (2010). "Diversity of Television Exposure and its Association with the Cultivation of Concern for Environmental Risks." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(1): 54-65.	Cultivation theory claims that individuals who watch a greater amount of television are more likely to accept the representation of reality as presented on television. This study introduces the variable of exposure diversity and attempts to investigate if the diversity of television channels viewed plays a significant role beyond the amount of television viewed in the cultivation of concern about environmental risks. Data from the 2002 annual Life Style Study conducted by Synovate for DDB-Chicago was paired with a corresponding content analysis of environmental television coverage. Ordinary-Least-Squares regression suggests that exposure diversity is associated with concern of environmental risks above and beyond both the effects of the amount of television watched and individual differences, suggesting the variable of exposure diversity holds promise for further explicating cultivation theory.

Daley, S. M. (2000). "Public Science Day and the public understanding of science in America." Public Understanding of Science 9(2): 175-181.	Many countries around the world have instituted day-long or week-long events celebrating science and technology. This article describes the "Public Science Day" sponsored by the American Association for the Advancement of science, focusing especially on organizational context, goals, and activities.

Dalrymple, K. E., et al. (2016). ""Facts, Not Fear": Negotiating Uncertainty on Social Media During the 2014 Ebola Crisis." Science Communication 38(4): 442-467.	Trust in many government organizations is low, creating a challenging environment for communication during outbreaks of emerging infectious diseases, like Ebola. In a thematic analysis of 1,010 tweets and four Twitter chats during the 2014-2015 Ebola outbreak, we found that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention emphasized organizational competence, extant protocol, and facts about transmission to manage public fear. We argue that an emphasis on certainty in a rapidly changing situation leaves organizations vulnerable to charges of unpreparedness or obfuscation. Our results also speak to the contested definition of engagement online, particularly during health crises.

Dana, D. A. (2013). "Nanotechnology and the Public: Risk Perception and Risk Communication." Science Communication 35(4): 540-541.
	
Danell, J. A. B. (2012). "Representation and Negotiation of Complementary and Alternative Medicine: A Citation Context Analysis." Science Communication 34(3): 299-333.	Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) is not only increasingly popular and frequently used in Western societies, it is also a growing scientific field. But how are results from clinical CAM studies received and represented by other researchers? This article discusses the migration and representation of three clinical CAM studies, published in high-impact medical journals, analyzed with help from quantitative and qualitative citation context analysis. The results indicate a great variety concerning the migration of results and that this kind of research is subject to different kinds of boundary work, especially concerning biomedical standards and design of the studies.

Danet, A. and R. M. Medina-Domenech (2015). "A "tale of two countries": Narratives of hearts, patients and doctors in the Spanish press." Public Understanding of Science 24(6): 641-657.	In this article we explore how the Spanish written press - ABC, La Vanguardia, and Blanco y Negro - and the official newsreel No-Do, created and disseminated a narrative about heart transplantations at the end of the 1960s. We consider how Franco's regime used Christiaan Barnard's heart transplants to legitimize the Spanish dictatorship and as a means of signifying scientific progress, modernization and national pride. The Spanish press created the plot of the first transplantations like that of a television series, presenting daily installments on the patients' progress, dramatizing the stories and ensuring the public's emotional attachment. The three main characters in the story: donors, patients and surgeons, formed a symbolic, indivisible narrative triangle endowed with singular meaning. This Spanish narrative of organ transplant technology was deployed through what we have called a tale of two countries, that, emulating the South African's success, constructed in Martinez-Bordiu, Franco's son-in-law, a home-grown, masculine scientific personality capable of performing heart surgery and endorsing Franco's investment in scientific modernization.

Danisch, R. (2013). "Risk assessment as rhetorical practice: The ironic mathematics behind terrorism, banking, and public policy." Public Understanding of Science 22(2): 236-251.	The twin problems of possible terrorist attacks and a global economic recession have been, and continue to be, critical components of contemporary political culture. At the center of both problems is the assessment of future risk. To calculate the probability that a loan will default or to estimate the likelihood of an act of bioterrorism crippling an American city is to engage in the quantitative science of risk assessment. The process of risk assessment is an attempt to rationalize the uncertainty and contingency of the future. In this essay, I read risk assessments made by the Department of Homeland Security and by major banks during the recent financial collapse as examples of rhetorical practice. As such, I show the rhetorical form and function of risk assessments in order to determine the effect that they have on contemporary political culture.

Dannenberg, C. J., et al. (2012). "The Moral Appeal of Environmental Discourses: The Implication of Ethical Rhetorics." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(2): 212-232.	Environmental sustainability demands civic action through both changes in individual and community behaviors in addition to national and international agreements and cooperation. In moral appeals to the environment, individuals are often called upon to behave in "good'' ways-reduce, reuse, recycle-to "save the planet.'' Behavior, and our attitudes about it, is therefore an important component to ongoing sustainability efforts. This pilot study, conducted in Fall 2009, brings together research methods in sociolinguistics and rhetorical studies to examine the discourses that students produce when describing issues and practices concerning sustainability. In interviews with 15 students in an earth sustainability general education core, our study found that students were knowledgeable about environmental issues and expressed intentions to engage in sustainable behaviors. Yet, students produced accommodating discourses when addressing competing demands on their time and resources. The sociolinguistic analysis of interview data shows a disassociation from environmental issues at the symbolic level of language use. The rhetorical analysis shows that this disassociation manifests as guilt, largely because when choosing between various moral appeals in their social context, students are left without tangible direction for engaging in new sustainable behaviors.

Dash, B. (2015). "Public understanding of cyclone warning in India: Can wind be predicted?" Public Understanding of Science 24(8): 970-987.	In spite of meteorological warning, many human lives are lost every year to cyclone mainly because vulnerable populations were not evacuated on time to a safe shelter as per recommendation. It raises several questions, most prominently what explains people's behaviour in the face of such danger from a cyclonic storm? How do people view meteorological advisories issued for cyclone and what role they play in defining the threat? What shapes public response during such situation? This article based on an ethnographic study carried out in coastal state of Odisha, India, argues that local public recognising inherent limitations of meteorological warning, fall back on their own system of observation and forecasting. Not only are the contents of cyclone warning understood, its limitations are accommodated and explained.

Datta, L. E. (1998). "The message in the bottle and the genie in the lamp - Information integrity and individualization in science communication." Science Communication 20(1): 22-27.	Science communicators face two perennial problems:first, how can one maintain the integrity of science communications in the face of forces which may tend to degrade them and second, how can science communications be made more useful for the individuals who are most in need of their messages? The author offers some practical advice for addressing these questions in context.

Davidson, R. (2014). "Financial markets and authoritative proximity in personal finance magazines." Public Understanding of Science 23(6): 734-749.	This study investigates how mediated discourse about finance developed in the USA in parallel to the shift from a corporate liberal political economic order to a neoliberal one. This is done by analyzing two personal finance magazines, Money and Kiplinger's, utilizing both critical discourse analysis and longitudinal quantitative content analysis (1947-2008). I find that at the core of this discursive environment lies the phenomenon of authoritative proximity, which positions the magazines as trusted advisors guiding the audience, a collection of individuals, towards financial autonomy through immersion in financial markets. Authoritative proximity is constituted by second person address forms, imperative mood and paratactic syntax - all elements whose salience rises over time. This discourse, which makes the abstract financial system increasingly more concrete and focused on the individual, is compatible with the emergence of a neoliberal political economy.

Davies, S., et al. (2009). "Discussing dialogue: perspectives on the value of science dialogue events that do not inform policy." Public Understanding of Science 18(3): 338-353.	While theoretical work and empirical research have examined science policy-informing "dialogue events," dialogue events that do not seek to inform public policy are under-theorized and under-researched, even though they are common and growing in popularity in the UK. We describe how, from a critical perspective, it may initially appear that such events cannot be justified without returning to the deficit model. But with this paper, we seek to open up a discussion about these non policy-informing events by arguing that there are in fact further ways to understand and frame them. We deliberately draw on different literatures and seek to make use of practitioner expertise within our discussion, in order to display several perspectives on the value of non-policy dialogue on science as sites of symmetrical individual or small-scale learning-rather than institutional learning-through social processes.

Davies, S. R. (2008). "Constructing communication: Talking to scientists about talking to the public." Science Communication 29(4): 413-434.	Recent work has started to explore "scientific understandings of publics" alongside public understandings of science. This study builds on this work to examine the ways in which public communication is talked about by scientists and engineers. The author identifies a range of ways of talking about the purposes and content of science communication to the public, arguing that the dominant framework for these is one-way communication, and that, in addition, such communication tends to be constructed as difficult and dangerous. However, the author further identifies a range of minority discourses that understand public communication in more complex terms.

Davies, S. R. (2013). "Constituting Public Engagement: Meanings and Genealogies of PEST in Two UK Studies." Science Communication 35(6): 687-707.	This article uses data from two U.K. studies in order to explore the meanings attached to public engagement. It focuses on two issues of importance to contemporary discussions of science communication: the degree to which there has been a smooth transition, in practice, from models of public understanding of science to those of public engagement with science and technology (PEST), and the histories, or genealogies, of such models. Data from two qualitative studiesa case study of one of the United Kingdom'ssix Beacons for Public Engagement and a study of contract research staffare used to characterize the ways in which U.K. academic communities understand PEST. It is argued that engagement is construed as multiple, relational, and outcomes oriented, with seven key outcomes ranging from better research to empowered individuals. These differences are traced to personal and professional backgrounds, suggesting that multiple and overlapping meanings around PEST are derived from particular histories that have been brought together, through the rubric of public engagement, in assemblages such as the Beacons.

Davies, S. R. (2013). "The rules of engagement: Power and interaction in dialogue events." Public Understanding of Science 22(1): 65-79.	This article reflects on the "dialogic turn," focusing on one analytical framework for understanding the wide range of processes that fall under the rubric of engagement. The notion of power-in-interaction is explored using a case study of informal dialogue, the Dana Centre, London. Using this framework I argue that we can understand public engagement events as hallmarked by conflict, but that this conflict emerges not in differing assessments of the value of different forms of knowledge but around the very form of a dialogue event; similarly, I suggest that the content of talk indicates that imposed hierarchies are continually re-negotiated. In concluding I reflect on some implications of using power in the analysis of engagement.

Davies, S. R. and N. Hara (2017). "Public Science in a Wired World: How Online Media Are Shaping Science Communication Introduction." Science Communication 39(5): 563-568.
	
Davies, S. R. and C. Selin (2012). "Energy Futures: Five Dilemmas of the Practice of Anticipatory Governance." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(1): 119-136.	Public participation has become standard practice in both environmental communication and science and technology studies, with such engagement increasingly moving "upstream" to the early stages of technological development. One framework for these activities is anticipatory governance, in which foresight and public and stakeholder engagement are used to reflect on-and direct-the impacts of new technology. In this essay we draw on our experience of anticipatory governance, in the shape of the "NanoFutures" project on energy futures, to present a reflexive analysis of engagement and deliberation. We draw out five tensions of the practice of deliberation on energy technologies. Through tracing the lineages of these dilemmas, we discuss some of the implications of these tensions for the practice of civic engagement and deliberation in a set of questions for this community of practitioner-scholars.

Davis, C. B., et al. (2016). ""You Can't Run Your SUV on Cute. Let's Go!": Internet Memes as Delegitimizing Discourse." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(1): 62-83.	In an effort to explore the role of new media technologies in environmental protest rhetoric, this paper examines Greenpeace's Let's Go! Arctic campaign, which opposed Shell's Arctic oil-drilling plans. The campaign produced a body of Internet memes designed to look like Shell's own corporate advertising. Moreover, the viral campaign used various rhetorical techniques that challenged Shell's goals and identity. Greenpeace-generated and user-generated memes cleverly use irony, corporate voice and humor to delegitimize Shell's Arctic efforts. The memes offered messages that mocked corporate practices and corporate messaging while also providing direct protest messages and accessible humor that invited identification against Shell. Thus, the memes collectively encouraged identification with Greenpeace's antidrilling, pro-environment discourse.

Davis, L., et al. (2018). "Environmental Communication and Science CommunicationConversations, Connections and Collaborations." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(4): 431-437.
	
Davis, M. (2000). "Report: Writing a code of ethics by e-mail - My adventures with some software engineers." Science Communication 21(4): 392-405.	The Computer Society of the institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers and the Association of Computing Machinery set up a joint committee (Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices [SEEPP]) to write a code of ethics for software engineers. Work was to be "primarily " by e-mail. SEEPP has now completed its work. Acting as participant observers, we concluded the following: (I) e-mail, while perhaps saving travel, did not las hoped) speed the process of code writing; (2) e-mail exchanges resembled those of conventional mail rather than those via the phone; (3) e-mail was not as reliable as phone, fax, or conventional mail (a surprising number of messages went astray); (4) e-mail did not encourage communication among strangers, overcome apathy, or cure the effects of overcommitment; and(5) e-mail was no substitute for face-to-face meetings (indeed, it seemed to require some such meetings to work we[El.

Davis, T. H. (2004). "Report: Engaging the public with science as it happens - The Current Science & Technology Center at the Museum of Science, Boston." Science Communication 26(1): 107-113.	Free-choice learning is a significant contributor to the continued acquisition of scientific knowledge for adults. A majority of the public visits science museums, but these institutions traditionally are not equipped to keep up with the rapid pace of scientific research, nor are they seen as a place to find out the latest information. The Current Science & Technology Center (CS&T) at the Museum of Science, Boston, Massachusetts, is one experiment to change this situation and engage the public with research as it happens. Opened in 2001, CS&T is an evolving entity that seeks to reach visitors, both real and virtual, by offering opportunities for engagement that address a variety of learning styles.

Dawson, E. (2018). "Reimagining publics and (non) participation: Exploring exclusion from science communication through the experiences of low-income, minority ethnic groups." Public Understanding of Science 27(7): 772-786.	This article explores science communication from the perspective of those most at risk of exclusion, drawing on ethnographic fieldwork. I conducted five focus groups and 32 interviews with participants from low-income, minority ethnic backgrounds. Using theories of social reproduction and social justice, I argue that participation in science communication is marked by structural inequalities (particularly ethnicity and class) in two ways. First, participants' involvement in science communication practices was narrow (limited to science media consumption). Second, their experiences of exclusion centred on cultural imperialism (misrepresentation and 'Othering') and powerlessness (being unable to participate or change the terms of their participation). I argue that social reproduction in science communication constructs a narrow public that reflects the shape, values and practices of dominant groups, at the expense of the marginalised. The article contributes to how we might reimagine science communication's publics by taking inclusion/exclusion and the effects of structural inequalities into account.

Dawson, I. G. J. (2018). "Assessing the Effects of Information About Global Population Growth on Risk Perceptions and Support for Mitigation and Prevention Strategies." Risk Analysis 38(10): 2222-2241.	The human population is forecast to increase by 3-4 billion people during this century and many scientists have expressed concerns that this could increase the likelihood of certain adverse events (e.g., climate change and resource shortages). Recent research shows that these concerns are mirrored in public risk perceptions and that these perceptions correlate with a willingness to adopt mitigation behaviors (e.g., reduce resource consumption) and preventative actions (e.g., support actions to limit growth). However, little research has assessed the factors that influence risk perceptions of global population growth (GPG). To contribute to this important goal, this article presents three studies that examined how risk perceptions of GPG might be influenced by textual-visual representations (like those in media and Internet articles) of the potential effects of GPG. Study 1 found that a textual narrative that highlighted the potential negative (cf. positive) consequences of GPG led to higher perceived risk and greater willingness to adopt mitigation behaviors, but not to support preventative actions. Notably, the influence of the narratives on perceived risk was largely moderated by the participant's prior knowledge and perceptions of GPG. Contrary to expectations, studies 2 and 3 revealed, respectively, that photographs depicting GPG-related imagery and graphs depicting GPG rates had no significant effect on the perceived risk of GPG or the willingness to embrace mitigation or preventative actions. However, study 3 found that individuals with higher "graph literacy" perceived GPG as a higher risk and were more willing to adopt mitigation behaviors and support preventative actions.

Dawson, I. G. J. and J. E. V. Johnson (2014). "Growing Pains: How Risk Perception and Risk Communication Research Can Help to Manage the Challenges of Global Population Growth." Risk Analysis 34(8): 1378-1390.	In 2011, the global human population reached 7 billion and medium variant projections indicate that it will exceed 9 billion before 2045. Theoretical and empirical perspectives suggest that this growth could lead to an increase in the likelihood of adverse events (e.g., food shortages, climate change, etc.) and/or the severity of adverse events (e.g., famines, natural disasters, etc.). Several scholars have posited that the size to which the global population grows and the extent to which this growth increases the likelihood of adverse outcomes will largely be shaped by individuals' decisions (in households, organizations, governments, etc.). In light of the strong relationship between perceived risk and decision behaviors, it is surprising that there remains a dearth of empirical research that specifically examines the perceived risks of population growth and how these perceptions might influence related decisions. In an attempt to motivate this important strand of research, this article examines the major risks that may be exacerbated by global population growth and draws upon empirical work concerning the perception and communication of risk to identify potential directions for future research. The article also considers how individuals might perceive both the risks and benefits of population growth and be helped to better understand and address the related issues. The answers to these questions could help humanity better manage the emerging consequences of its continuing success in increasing infant survival and adult longevity.

Dawson, I. G. J. and J. E. V. Johnson (2017). "Does Size Matter? A Study of Risk Perceptions of Global Population Growth." Risk Analysis 37(1): 65-81.	The global human population now exceeds 7 billion and is projected to reach 10 billion around 2060. While population growth has been associated with certain benefits (e.g., economies of scale, technological advancements), theoretical models, probabilistic projections, and empirical evidence also indicate that this growth could increase the likelihood of many adverse events (e.g., climate change, resource shortages) and the impact of these events, as more people are exposed to the outcomes. While concerns about these issues are well-documented in the academic literature, there is little evidence concerning the public's perceptions of the risks associated with global population growth (GPG) and how these perceptions are likely to influence related decisions. To address these issues, we conducted a U.K.-based study that examined respondents' risk perceptions of GPG, their willingness to embrace mitigation/precautionary behaviors, and reasons for variations in these two factors. We found that GPG is perceived as a moderate-to-high risk, with concerns about the increased likelihood of resource shortages, ecological damage, and violent conflict being foremost. Respondents believed that the worst effects of GPG would arrive around 2050 and would be experienced by the world's poorest people. Respondents who perceived greater levels of risk from GPG were generally those who indicated a greater willingness to embrace mitigation behaviors (e.g., reduce resource consumption) and preventative actions (e.g., support political action to limit growth). We discuss how our findings might be utilized to better manage the potential challenges associated with GPG and we suggest several directions for further research.

Dawson, I. G. J., et al. (2012). "Do People Believe Combined Hazards Can Present Synergistic Risks?" Risk Analysis 32(5): 801-815.	The risk attributable to some hazard combinations can be greater than the sum of the risk attributable to each constituent hazard. Such synergistic risks occur in several domains, can vary in magnitude, and often have harmful, even life-threatening, outcomes. Yet, the extent to which people believe that combined hazards can present synergistic risks is unclear. We present the results of two experimental studies aimed at addressing this issue. In both studies, participants examined synergistic and additive risk scenarios, and judged whether these were possible. The results indicate that the proportion of people who believe that synergistic risks can occur declines linearly as the magnitude of the synergistic risk increases. We also find that people believe, despite scientific evidence to the contrary, that certain hazard combinations are more likely to present additive or weakly synergistic risks than synergistic risks of higher magnitudes. Furthermore, our findings did not vary as a simple function of hazard domain (health vs. social), but varied according to the characteristics of the specific hazards considered (specified vs. unspecified drug combinations). These results suggest that many peoples beliefs concerning the risk attributable to combined hazards could lead them to underestimate the threat posed by combinations that present synergistic risks, particularly for hazard combinations that present higher synergistic risk magnitudes. These findings highlight a need to develop risk communications that can effectively increase awareness of synergistic risks.

Dawson, I. G. J., et al. (2013). "Helping Individuals to Understand Synergistic Risks: An Assessment of Message Contents Depicting Mechanistic and Probabilistic Concepts." Risk Analysis 33(5): 851-865.	Accumulating evidence shows that certain hazard combinations interact to present synergistic risks. However, little is known about the most effective ways of helping individuals to understand this complex risk concept. More specifically, there is an absence of empirical research that has assessed the relative efficacy of messages that explain either the causal mechanism and/or the probabilistic components of synergistic risks. In an experiment designed to address this issue, we presented participants with messages concerning the synergistic risk of developing esophageal cancer for individuals who consume both tobacco and alcohol. Relative to a control group, we compared the extent to which messages featuring content detailing the underlying biological mechanism, the probabilistic risk, or both improved understanding of the synergistic risk. Our results showed that messages containing details of both the mechanism and probabilistic information were most effective at enabling individuals to understand that the alcohol-tobacco combination presents a synergistic risk. In addition, large improvements in the accuracy of cancer frequency estimates were observed amongst individuals who received probabilistic information, and the highest relative increase in professed willingness to adopt precautionary behaviors was observed amongst individuals who received the mechanism information only. Importantly, these findings could be utilized in the development of a general model for the communication of synergistic risks. Furthermore, in contrast to previous findings, our study demonstrates that risk messages can be both effective and efficient in helping individuals to acquire a greater understanding of synergistic risks. Acquiring such knowledge could lead to significant improvements in risk-related decisions concerning combined hazards.

Dawson, I. G. J., et al. (2017). "One Too Many? Understanding the Influence of Risk Factor Quantity on Perceptions of Risk." Risk Analysis 37(6): 1157-1169.	Forming a subjective risk judgment in circumstances that feature multiple risk factors is a common, yet complex task. One would expect variations in the number of risk factors in a given situation to have an important influence on risk judgments, yet the exact nature of this influence remains empirically untested. We conducted three studies to address this issue. In Study 1, we found that, when individuals were confronted with a preset number of risk factors (zero, one, two, or three) in the same scenario, their risk judgments were virtually identical for zero, one, and two risk factors, yet markedly higher for three risk factors. By contrast, Study 2 showed that when confronted with variations in the number of risk factors (zero, one, two, and three) for that same scenario, individuals' risk judgments increased/decreased in relatively even increments concurrent with increases/decreases in the number of risk factors. Study 3 identified that pronounced increases in risk judgments, like those observed in Study 1, may occur when the numbers of factors is high relative to the potential victim's vulnerability to those factors. Our results show that the number of risk factors in given circumstances can have an important influence on risk judgments and that this influence can differ based on the characteristics of the situation. We discuss how these findings provide a better understanding of subjective risk judgments and highlight the importance of those who seek to communicate risk information being mindful of how data about multiple risk factors could be (mis)interpreted.

de Almeida, J., et al. (2017). "Passages on Brazilian scientific cinema." Public Understanding of Science 26(5): 579-595.	The article examines the conditions of production and recognition of scientific cinema in Brazil by comparing three distinct moments and contexts: the first moment takes place in the nineteenth century, and it is related to the contribution of a Brazilian astronomer otherwise little known to Brazilian film scholars, the second addresses Benedito Junqueira Duarte's voluminous mid-twentieth-century filmography, and the third moment documents recent scientific film experiences within ultra high resolution movies transmitted over photonic networks. Future trajectories for aesthetic concerns and practical issues such as the archiving of ultra high definition cinema are usefully informed by these histories of scientific cinema, even as a current generation of multidisciplinary teams including scientists, filmmakers, computer scientists, and network engineers reinvent, rediscover, and necessarily expand the scientific cinema toward concerns of real time collaboration and teaching.

de Almeida, M. A. P. (2013). "Epidemics in the news: Health and hygiene in the press in periods of crisis." Public Understanding of Science 22(7): 886-902.	How did scientific knowledge reach the public? Using the press and keeping in mind the population's limited access to written material, this paper establishes how the latest scientific news was divulged to unspecialised audiences. In times of sanitary crisis in Oporto, such as the cholera morbus epidemic of 1854-1856, the bubonic plague in 1899 and the 1918 influenza pandemic, newspapers were important sources to access the information and advice given to the public. A database of 6700 articles, medical reports and advertisements published in daily newspapers reveals the state of the art of medical science. It also reveals the importance given by health authorities and journalists to the publication of recent discoveries and adequate hygiene procedures to prevent the spread of the epidemics. This is a subject that contributes to the debates on the dissemination of science and on the place that Portugal occupied in the international scientific community.

de Boer, J. (2010). "The role of prevention-oriented attitudes towards nature in people's judgment of new applications of genomics techniques in soil ecology." Public Understanding of Science 19(6): 654-668.	New applications of genomics techniques in soil ecology may provide people with fresh insights into the richness of microbial life forms and natural methods to build on the "self-cleaning capacity" of soils. Because genetic modification might also be involved, this paper examines people's judgments about some applications, using a theory on the promotion-or prevention-orientations that they may associate with interventions in the natural world. A prevention-oriented way of thinking was hypothesized to correspond with a preference for more restrictions on a GM application, unless the person appreciates the application's benefits for nature restoration. Survey data agreed with the hypotheses and clarified the way in which people may talk about "nature knows best" or "nature needs a little help."

de Boer, J., et al. (2014). "Improving Flood Risk Communication by Focusing on Prevention-Focused Motivation." Risk Analysis 34(2): 309-322.	This article proposes an approach to flood risk communication that gives particular emphasis to the distinction between prevention and promotion motivation. According to E. Tory Higgins, the promotion system and the prevention system are assumed to coexist in every person, but one or the other may be temporarily or chronically more accessible. These insights have far-reaching implications for our understanding of people's reasoning about risks. Flood risk communication framed in terms of prevention involves the notions of chance and harm, woven into a story about particular events that necessitate decisions to be more careful about safety issues and protect one's family and oneself from danger. The article describes how the insights worked out in practice, using a flood risk communication experiment among a sample from the general population in a highly populated river delta of the Netherlands. It had a posttest-only control group design (n= 2,302). The results showed that risk communication had a large effect on the participants' responses and that this effect was higher among chronic prevention-focused people than among others. Any information that increased the fit between a prevention-framed message and a person's chronic prevention motivation produced stronger situationally induced, prevention-focused responses. This may significantly improve communication about risks. In contrast, the notion of water city projects, featuring waterside living, had more appeal to promotion-focused people.

de Boer, J., et al. (2015). "More Than Fear Induction: Toward an Understanding of People's Motivation to Be Well-Prepared for Emergencies in Flood-Prone Areas." Risk Analysis 35(3): 518-535.	This article examines the extent and manner to which evaluations of flood-related precautions are affected by an individual's motivation and perception of context. It argues that the relationship between risk perception and flood risk preparedness can be fruitfully specified in terms of vulnerability and efficacy if these concepts are put into the perspective of prevention-focused motivation. This relationship was empirically examined in a risk communication experiment in a delta area of the Netherlands (n = 1,887). Prevention-focused motivation was induced by contextualized risk information. The results showed that prevention-focused individuals were more sensitive to the relevance of potential precautions for satisfying their needs in the context they found themselves in. The needs included, but were not limited to, fear reduction. Due to the heterogeneity of the residents, the evaluations reflected individual differences in the intensity and the selectivity of precautionary processes. Four types of persons could be distinguished according to their evaluation of precautionary measures: a high-scoring minority, two more selective types, and a low-scoring minority. For policymakers and risk communicators it is vital to consider the nature of prevention motivation and the context in which it is likely to be high.

de Bruin, W. B. and K. G. Carman (2018). "Measuring Subjective Probabilities: The Effect of Response Mode on the Use of Focal Responses, Validity, and Respondents' Evaluations." Risk Analysis 38(10): 2128-2143.	Subjective probabilities are central to risk assessment, decision making, and risk communication efforts. Surveys measuring probability judgments have traditionally used open-ended response modes, asking participants to generate a response between 0% and 100%. A typical finding is the seemingly excessive use of 50%, perhaps as an expression of I don't know. In an online survey with a nationally representative sample of the Dutch population, we examined the effect of response modes on the use of 50% and other focal responses, predictive validity, and respondents' survey evaluations. Respondents assessed the probability of dying, getting the flu, and experiencing other health-related events. They were randomly assigned to a traditional open-ended response mode, a visual linear scale ranging from 0% to 100%, or a version of that visual linear scale on which a magnifier emerged after clicking on it. We found that, compared to the open-ended response mode, the visual linear and magnifier scale each reduced the use of 50%, 0%, and 100% responses, especially among respondents with low numeracy. Responses given with each response mode were valid, in terms of significant correlations with health behavior and outcomes. Where differences emerged, the visual scales seemed to have slightly better validity than the open-ended response mode. Both high-numerate and low-numerate respondents' evaluations of the surveys were highest for the visual linear scale. Our results have implications for subjective probability elicitation and survey design.

de Bruin, W. B., et al. (2009). "Communicating About Xenotransplantation: Models and Scenarios." Risk Analysis 29(8): 1105-1115.	Xenotransplantation entails using organs from genetically modified animals as a way to solve the shortage of human organs for transplantation. As with other novel technologies, if xenotransplantation is to be judged fairly, proponents must explain its complex, uncertain, and unfamiliar risks and benefits. Xenotransplantation's risks include the possibility of a recombinant virus infecting human transplant recipients, potentially causing an epidemic of an unfamiliar disease. Using materials vetted by scientific experts, we communicated the variables and relationships determining this risk in three formally equivalent formats: (a) a graphic model, (b) scenarios structured by the graphic model, and (c) both the model and the scenarios. Participants were randomly assigned to receiving one set of materials. They rated them as equally clear and studied them equally long, suggesting similar ease of cognitive processing. Compared to participants receiving the scenarios, those who received the graphic model better identified causes and effects of the risk, and saw less risk of xenotransplantation. Participants who received both the model and the scenarios generally showed intermediate responses. The study demonstrates a general procedure for developing and evaluating formally equivalent graphic and scenario communications regarding highly uncertain risks. In this application to xenotransplantation, presenting a graphic representation improved people's understanding of the risk.

de Bruin, W. B., et al. (2015). "Developing communications about CCS: three lessons learned." Journal of Risk Research 18(6): 699-705.
	
de Bruin, W. B., et al. (2013). "The effect of communication design and recipients' numeracy on responses to UXO risk." Journal of Risk Research 16(8): 981-1004.	Risk communications aim to affect recipients' understanding of specific risks, their trust and liking of the materials, affective responses, and associated behaviors. We developed communications about the number of construction workers expected to get hurt if building were permitted at the former Fort Ord weapons training site in California, despite its contamination with unexploded ordnance (UXO). We created eight versions, which presented text only or bar graph with text, the numerator of the risk (the number of workers expected to be hurt) with or without emphasis on the denominator (the total number of workers), and uncertainty information (the probability that different numbers of workers would be hurt) or not. Recipients varied in numeracy. We examined the effect of these communication features on recipients' (1) understanding, (2) trust and liking of the materials, (3) affective responses, and (4) support for construction and for construction workers if construction were to be implemented. Low-numerate individuals showed less understanding across all versions of the communication, yet preferred graph-with-text displays relatively more than text-only displays as compared to high-numerate individuals. Emphasizing the denominator increased understanding of text-only displays but decreased support for construction and construction workers for all communication versions. Moreover, recipients were more supportive of construction and construction workers after receiving text-only displays without uncertainty information or graph-with-text displays with uncertainty information, seemingly due to communications with those features being trusted and liked more. We discuss the implications for communicating risks in general and for communicating UXO-related risks to the community surrounding Fort Ord.

de Ceglia, F. P. (2012). "From the laboratory to the factory, by way of the countryside: Fifty years of Italian scientific cinema (1908-1958)." Public Understanding of Science 21(8): 949-967.	The history of the Italian scientific documentary is not very well known nor, with the exception of the pioneer efforts in cinema, is it contemplated in the more complete studies of the evolution of the genre. This article aims to outline the ground covered by Italian scientific cinema in the first 50 years of its existence, from the pioneering works by Roberto Omegna to the industrial documentaries of the 1950s.

de Cheveigne, S. (2002). "Biotechnology policy - Can France move from centralized decision making to citizens' governance?" Science Communication 24(2): 162-172.	In a traditionally technocratic country such as France, the development of the life sciences provokes a number of new questions both about the consequences of scientific research and about the ways of regulating it. Risks are no longer only material; they are perceived as ethical and social, and citizens are no longer ready to hand over their control to technical experts. In this article, the author discusses this evolution on the basis of interviews and focus group material collected over the past six years in France.

de Jonge, J., et al. (2007). "Understanding consumer confidence in the safety of food: Its two-dimensional structure and determinants." Risk Analysis 27(3): 729-740.	Understanding of the determinants of consumer confidence in the safety of food is important if effective risk management and communication are to be developed. In the research reported here, we attempt to understand the roles of consumer trust in actors in the food chain and regulators, consumer recall of food safety incidents, consumer perceptions regarding the safety of particular product groups, personality characteristics, and sociodemographics, as potential determinants of consumer confidence in the safety of food. Consumer confidence in the safety of food was conceptualized as consisting of two distinct dimensions, namely, "optimism" and "pessimism." On the basis of a representative sample of 657 Dutch consumers, structural equation modeling was applied to simultaneously estimate the effect of the determinants on both "optimism" and "pessimism." The results indicated that, to a considerable extent, both optimism and pessimism about the safety of food arise from consumer trust in regulators and actors in the food chain and the perceived safety of meat and fish rather than other product categories. In addition, support was found for the notion that optimism and pessimism are conceptually distinct, as these dimensions of confidence were partly influenced by different determinants. The results of this study imply that consumer confidence in the safety of food could be enhanced by improving both consumer trust in societal actors, and consumer safety perceptions of particular product groups.

de Onis, K. M. (2012). ""Looking Both Ways": Metaphor and the Rhetorical Alignment of Intersectional Climate Justice and Reproductive Justice Concerns." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(3): 308-327.	While rhetorical approaches are common in communication inquiry, metaphor's role in shaping our understanding of the intersection of environmental and social justice issues has not fully been explored. This essay seeks to address this deficit by examining "Looking Both Ways: Women's Lives at the Crossroads of Reproductive Justice and Climate Justice," a publication of Asian Communities for Reproductive Justice. The text employs the metaphor of "looking both ways" to argue that climate and reproductive justice agenda setting should be aligned to simultaneously mitigate climate change and advance women's reproductive freedom. I contend "looking both ways" offers an innovative epistemological framework for articulating the intersections of climate and reproductive justice, as well as a convincing rationale for cultivating cross-movement coalitions. However, my analysis suggests that the organization's call to align climate and reproductive justice should be embraced with the acknowledgment that "looking both ways" limits a comprehensive coalitional perspective. This essay enhances current understandings of climate and reproductive justice concerns and demonstrates why diverse stakeholders committed to environmental causes must also support reproductive freedom.

De Semir, V. and G. Revuelta (2004). "Report: Scientific knowledge from, for and through cultural diversity - The 8th International Conference on the Public Communication of Science and Technology." Science Communication 26(2): 211-218.	Under the theme of "scientific knowledge and cultural diversity," Barcelona brought together in the first week of June 2004 more than six hundred people from every continent at the 8th International Conference on the Public Communication of Science and Technology. This open network of professionals extends to more than fifty countries and embraces the different aspects of science communication, including journalism, museology, research into scientific communication, and policies for scientific culture promotion, among others. On this particular occasion, the need to establish effective dialogue between the different forms of local knowledge and scientific knowledge was discussed and developed. The aim was not only to preserve cultural diversity but also to contribute to developing human knowledge and instilling a culture of peace. Various experiences demonstrated the essential role of the scientific communicator in this context.

De Vocht, M., et al. (2015). "Affective and cognitive reactions towards emerging food safety risks in Europe." Journal of Risk Research 18(1): 21-39.	Climate change and globalization may impact the microbiological food safety on fresh produce that is eaten raw. Hence, food risk communication to inform consumers needs to be carried out. The present study investigates affective and cognitive reactions of individuals towards a risk message with regard to the emerging food safety risks, using the risk-as-feelings theory and the affect heuristic as a theoretical basis. This research elaborates on whether these reactions towards a risk message vary across some European countries (i.e. Norway, Spain, Serbia and Belgium). The results show that compared to affective reactions, cognitive reactions have a higher predictive influence on behavioural intentions (i.e. the intention to alert loved ones, rinse fresh produce better, think about how to avert the risk and seek information). Both affective and cognitive reactions, as well as their predictive impact, differ significantly amongst the countries. Trust in the government, subjective knowledge about the topic and behavioural intentions differ as well per country. Based on these varying results of the impacts of affective and cognitive reactions on behavioural intentions that were observed in different countries, it is recommended that risk communication strategies be adapted on a national rather than on a European level.

De Vocht, M., et al. (2016). "Won't we scare them? The impact of communicating uncontrollable risks on the public's perception." Journal of Risk Research 19(3): 316-330.	Authorities often refrain from communicating risks out of fear to arouse negative feelings amongst the public and to create negative reactions in terms of the public's behavior. This study examines the impact of communicating risks on the public's feelings and behavioral intentions regarding an uncontrollable risk related to fresh produce. In addition, the impact of risk communication is compared between a situation in which the risk either does or does not develop into a crisis, by means of a 2 (risk communication vs. no risk communication)x2 (crisis communication vs. no crisis communication) between-subjects factorial design. The results show that communicating risks has a positive impact on the behavioral intention to keep on eating fresh produce compared to when no risk communication was provided, as it reduces negative feelings amongst the public. In addition, the findings illustrate that when a risk develops into an actual crisis, prior risk communication can result in greater trust in the government and reduce perceived government responsibility for the crisis when the crisis hits. Based on these findings, it can be suggested that risk communication is an effective tool for authorities in preparing the public for potential crises. The findings indicate that communicating risks does not raise negative reactions amongst the public, on the contrary, and that it results in more positive perceptions of the authorities.

de Vries, G., et al. (2016). "Perceptions of Manipulation and Judgments of Illegitimacy: Pitfalls in the Use of Emphasis Framing when Communicating about CO2 Capture and Storage." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(2): 206-226.	The mitigation of climate change requires reductions in the amount of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere. One way to achieve this in the short run is through the implementation of CO2 capture and storage (CCS) technology. The viability of CCS not only depends on technical and regulatory issues, but also on public attitudes. Communication plays an important role in shaping these attitudes. This paper reports on two experiments performed to examine effects of emphasis framing in CCS communications, meaning that greater weight is given to advantages of CCS over disadvantages or vice versa. Although emphasis framing can be effective in shaping attitudes, our findings suggest that there may be long-term costs to using this communication technique as it can be perceived as manipulative. Moreover, emphasis framing is judged as relatively illegitimate when the source is expected to be impartial rather than biased.

De Witt, A., et al. (2017). "Understanding public perceptions of biotechnology through the "Integrative Worldview Framework"." Public Understanding of Science 26(1): 70-88.	Biotechnological innovations prompt a range of societal responses that demand understanding. Research has shown such responses are shaped by individuals' cultural worldviews. We aim to demonstrate how the Integrative Worldview Framework (IWF) can be used for analyzing perceptions of biotechnology, by reviewing (1) research on public perceptions of biotechnology and (2) analyses of the stakeholder-debate on the bio-based economy, using the Integrative Worldview Framework (IWF) as analytical lens. This framework operationalizes the concept of worldview and distinguishes between traditional, modern, and postmodern worldviews, among others. Applied to these literatures, this framework illuminates how these worldviews underlie major societal responses, thereby providing a unifying understanding of the literature on perceptions of biotechnology. We conclude the IWF has relevance for informing research on perceptions of socio-technical changes, generating insight into the paradigmatic gaps in social science, and facilitating reflexive and inclusive policy-making and debates on these timely issues.

de-Graft Aikins, A., et al. (2015). "Mass media constructions of "socio-psychological epidemics' in sub-Saharan Africa: The case of genital shrinking in 11 countries." Public Understanding of Science 24(8): 988-1006.	Genital shrinking is a recurring phenomenon with about 180 reported cases in sub-Saharan Africa over the last two decades. Transcending national boundaries, it results in distress for victims, mob violence against accused perpetrators and mass panic which law enforcement agencies struggle to contain. This article examines mass media construction and framing of genital shrinking within a social representations theory framework. Our analysis suggests the following: (1) mass media reports are informed by lay and expert perspectives; (2) three stocks of knowledge are drawn on interchangeably, with culture constituting a core representation; (3) lay and expert perspectives overlap on cultural and common-sense explanations of genital shrinking; and (4) scientific explanations are limited to individual pathophysiology and psychopathology and do not inform public opinion. We consider the implications of understanding genital shrinking for improving mass media constructions and dissemination of information on socio-psychological epidemics' that may have scientific explanations.

Dearing, J. W. and G. Meyer (1994). "An Exploratory Tool for Predicting Adoption Decisions." Science Communication 16(1): 43-57.	Three new concepts in innovation diffusion are presented and demonstrated (1) the attribute matrix, a description of both innovator perceptions and portrayals, as well as the perceptions of potential adopters about the identified characteristics of an innovation; (2) the innovation profile, a composite description of innovators' perceptions and communications about their innovations, and the perception of potential adopters about the innovations; and (3) the potential for adoption rating, or PAR score, a single number representing the likelihood that any one innovation will be adopted

Dearing, J. W., et al. (1994). "Portraying the New - Communication between University Innovators and Potential Users." Science Communication 16(1): 11-42.	How do academics communicate their research to external constituents? As U.S. research universities seek to emphasize knowledge application through outreach, answers to this question increase in importance. This article describes an exploratory analysis of conversations between and perceptions of (1) nine university researchers investigating hazardous waste remediation and (2) sets of environmental consulting engineers, state government regulators, and industrial scientists. Implications for two types of outreach-university-based technology transfer and diffusion of innovations-are discussed.

Debrett, M. (2017). "Representing climate change on public service television: A case study." Public Understanding of Science 26(4): 452-466.	Publicly funded broadcasters with a track record in science programming would appear ideally placed to represent climate change to the lay public. Free from the constraints of vested interests and the economic imperative, public service providers are better equipped to represent the scientific, social and economic aspects of climate change than commercial media, where ownership conglomeration, corporate lobbyists and online competition have driven increasingly tabloid coverage with an emphasis on controversy. This prime-time snapshot of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's main television channel explores how the structural/rhetorical conventions of three established public service genres - a science programme, a documentary and a live public affairs talk show - impact on the representation of anthropogenic climate change. The study findings note implications for public trust, and discuss possibilities for innovation in the interests of better public understanding of climate change.

Deisler, P. F. (2002). "A perspective: Risk analysis as a tool for reducing the risks of terrorism." Risk Analysis 22(3): 405-413.	The destruction by terrorists of the twin towers of the World Trade Center and major damage wrought to the Pentagon on September 11, 2001, followed closely by the bioterrorist anthrax attacks via the mails raised the question of whether risk analysis might have a place in defending the United States against terrorist attacks. After first reviewing the multifaceted nature of terrorism and the reasons it is likely to become endemic in world society in the long term, just as other areas of crime are endemic, this article surveys several fields of risk analysis. finding possible short- and long-term uses of risk analysis. The areas chiefly considered are: risk communication and chemical, biological, and technological risk analysis. Broad policy and other uses are also considered. The author finds that risk analysis has already played some role. perhaps informally, but he sees the possibility for a much larger, formal one, a role that is centrally important for the present and future of the United States and the world.

Delacote, G. (1998). "The science center movement: contexts, practice, next challenges - Responses." Public Understanding of Science 7(1): 23-23.
	
DeLaure, M. (2011). "Environmental Comedy: No Impact Man and the Performance of Green Identity." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(4): 447-466.
	"No Impact Man'' (NIM) Colin Beavan attracted international media attention and a good deal of criticism for his year-long experiment attempting to live making zero net impact on the environment. Whereas Beavan's critics dismissed the project as a mere publicity stunt, this essay reads the NIM blog, book, and documentary film as a compelling performance of green identity in the comic frame. This performance-which links private consumption to ecology and community, and emphasizes flaws, foibles, humor and humility-offers an appealing invitation to engage in both individual and collective action. I argue that comedy is a useful rhetorical tool for addressing global warming, as it enables us to see ourselves not as helpless victims in a tragic doomsday scenario, but as imperfect actors who are both guilty contributors to the problem and agents responsible for its amelioration.

DeLaurier, M. and M. Salvador (2018). "Locating Co-presence in Media Messages about Global Warming." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(3): 387-401.	This paper responds to recent calls for alternative approaches to the analysis of environmental communication that uncover overlooked voices in the discussion of environmental issues. Borrowing core principles from critical rhetoric, it suggests a way to categorize media messages according to how human-nature relationships are constructed in media discourse. The paper illustrates how, in presenting contrasting and often oppositional constructions of human-nature relationships, the media messages examined articulate three recurrent (but not equal) discourses on global warming. These discourses include (1) nature-as-out-of-reach discourse, (2) nature-as-antagonist discourse, and (3) nature-as-co-present discourse. By juxtaposing these discourses, the paper shows how environmental communication scholars can engage in critical realism and political advocacy to illuminate latent public discourse that holds the potential to champion marginalized voices of nature and accentuate the interconnectedness of humans and the environment.

Delborne, J. A., et al. (2011). "Virtual deliberation? Prospects and challenges for integrating the Internet in consensus conferences." Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 367-384.	Consensus conferences have functioned well in small, relatively homogeneous countries such as Denmark. In the geographically sprawling and socially diverse United States, however, meaningful citizen deliberation and decision-making on science and technology depends upon the ability to bring more participants "into the room." The National Citizens' Technology Forum, held in March 2008, responded to this need by integrating panels of citizens from multiple US cities in structured face-to-face and online deliberation. We analyze the success of this experiment by focusing on the experience of participants during the online deliberation component. We conclude with recommendations for future organizers of online deliberation, focusing on the benefits of combining synchronous and asynchronous engagement and improving facilitation practice and software capabilities.

Delgado, A. (2010). "Activist trust: the diffusion of green expertise in a Brazilian landscape." Public Understanding of Science 19(5): 562-577.	MST (Movimento Sem Terra/Landless People's Movement) is the largest rural movement of Latin America. Since the late 1990s, it has taken part in the diffusion of expertise about biodiversity conservation. Using an ethnographic approach, this paper investigates sources and roles of trust within this process. How does trust work when experts and laypeople belong to the same movement? The paper uses and critically discusses the works of Brian Wynne and the Actor Network Theory. It describes the particular ways in which the building of trust takes place within the intimate networks of MST. As ecological expertise becomes a central element within MST's project of liberation, the sources of trust are both affective and effective. Interests, social recognition and identity are intertwined. In the conclusion, I propose the concept of activist trust.

Delgado, A. and B. Callen (2017). "Do-it-yourself biology and electronic waste hacking: A politics of demonstration in precarious times." Public Understanding of Science 26(2): 179-194.	In recent years, there has been an explosion of do it yourself, maker and hacker spaces in Europe. Through makers and do-it-yourself initiatives, 'hacking' is moving into the everyday life of citizens. This article explores the collective and political nature of those hacks by reporting on empirical work on electronic waste and do-it-yourself biology hacking. Using Dewey's experimental approach to politics, we analyse hacks as 'inquiry' to see how they serve to articulate public and political action. We argue that do-it-yourself and makers' hacks are technical and political demonstrations. What do-it-yourself and makers' hacks ultimately demonstrate is that things can be done otherwise and that 'you' can also do it. In this sense, they have a potential viral effect. The final part of the article explores some potential shortcomings of such politics of demonstration.

Delgado, A., et al. (2011). "Public engagement coming of age: From theory to practice in STS encounters with nanotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 20(6): 826-845.	In this paper, we present a study of Science and Technology Studies (STS) perspectives on public engagement, specifically focusing on the gap between theory and practice. In aiming to develop a conceptual map of this gap, we identify five top topics of tension. These are related to the general questions of: "Why should we do public engagement?," "Who should be involved?," "How should it be organised?," "When should it be done?" and "Where should it be grounded?" We employ nanotechnology as a paradigmatic case to help us explore these tensions. In practice, the choices one makes in relation to one topic of tension may influence the choices available for others. Enhanced awareness of the presence of these tensions, as well as their interconnections, can help build reflexive capacity and make visible the various alternative routes available for STS practitioners working in the "age of engagement.".

Delgado, A., et al. (2012). "Imagining High-Tech Bodies: Science Fiction and the Ethics of Enhancement." Science Communication 34(2): 200-240.	Seeking for broad and inclusive ways of framing ethical debates on emerging technologies, in this article the authors explore imaginaries of body enhancement as encompassed in the science fiction (sci-fi) literature. They provide in-depth descriptions of three sci-fi novels: Neuromancer, The Player of Games, and Kethani. They explore how ethical concerns are framed within the imaginary world of these novels, emphasizing that this framing is usually ambivalent, embedded within lived narratives, as well as future and collectively oriented. Because they evoke shared imaginaries, sci-fi novels appear as useful to trigger debate on new technologies.

Delicado, A. (2009). "Scientific controversies in museums: notes from a semi-peripheral country." Public Understanding of Science 18(6): 759-767.	This research note discusses the representation of scientific controversies in museums in a particular national context, Portugal. Despite the recent development of the national scientific system and the field of science museums, the connection between science and society has remained weak. The description of the content of scientific exhibitions, namely about controversial issues, shows that science is still portrayed as beyond dispute and unequivocally beneficial and the public is dismissed as irrational and in need of enlightenment. The role of museums as forums for debate and exchange of ideas is yet to be fulfilled.

DeLuca, K. M. (2009). "Greenpeace International Media Analyst Reflects on Communicating Climate Change." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(2): 263-269.	This essay is an interview about the communication choices that the senior media analyst of one of the most significant environmental advocacy organizations in the world, Greenpeace, faces when organizing and creating publicity about global climate change. The interviewee is Greenpeace Organizer Soenke Lorenzen (1966), Hannover, Germany), who studied Geography and Cultural Anthropology at the Universitat Trier (Germany), Albert Ludwigs Universitat Freiburg (Germany), and Universitat Zurich (Switzerland). He also worked as documentalist for the award winning Photography Agency Lookat in Zurich and as Senior Analyst for Cision (a global leader in providing media intelligence). The interviewer is Kevin Michael DeLuca, a professor of Communication at the University of Utah. He is author of numerous articles, as well as "Image Politics: The New Rhetoric of Environmental Activism'' (Routledge, 2005).

DeLuca, K. M. (2010). "Salvaging Wilderness from the Tomb of History: A Response to The National Parks: America's Best Idea." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(4): 484-493.	In the age of industrialism, wilderness is the counterbalance to human excesses and the inspiration for environmental activists. Today, wilderness is even more important and contested as people face multiple environmental crises on a planet with an exploding human population and voracious consumer appetite. Too often obscured by the technosphere that engulfs us, wilderness awaits its ecoteur filmmakers to give it greater presence on the public screens of the technoscape. After The National Parks: America's Best Idea, wilderness still waits. By treating wilderness as an historical relic and vacation spot, the film saps it of its vital relevance and political power. Audiences must understand the foundational role of wilderness in their lives, instead of being pacified with an history drained of color that disconnects them from wilderness. As people wonder if there is a future for industrial civilization, wilderness provides the last best hope for rethinking our place on earth.

DeLuca, K. M. and L. Slawter-Volkening (2009). "Memories of the Tropics in Industrial Jungles: Constructing Nature, Contesting Nature." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(1): 1-24.	This essay examines zoos as a site of struggle in the construction of meanings and memories of human-nature relations. Modern zoos are symbols of imperial power and celebrations of the domination of nature. The grafting of "tropic worlds'' onto these monuments of modernity renders the meaning of zoos more ambiguous, reflecting discursive struggles over the meaning of nature, questions about the wisdom of development and progress, recognition of the need for conservation and preservation, and nostalgia for a nature that has been lost. Through a close textual reading of "The Rainforest'' at the Cleveland Metroparks Zoo, this essay explores the simulation of nature in zoos and "tropic worlds'' in North American cities. These hyperreal spaces contain an extraordinary amount of the history and politics of the culture that constructs them for fascination, edification, conservation, commodification, and salvation. At stake in these simulated natures is not only the constructions of nature as spectacle and animals as commodities, but also the use of knowledge to maintain certain forms of domination and the "writing'' of industrial culture's historical memory of nature and human-nature relations.

Demarchi, B. (1991). "The Seveso Directive - an Italian Pilot-Study in Enabling Communication." Risk Analysis 11(2): 207-215.
	
Demuth, J. L. (2018). "Explicating Experience: Development of a Valid Scale of Past Hazard Experience for Tornadoes." Risk Analysis 38(9): 1921-1943.	People's past experiences with a hazard theoretically influence how they approach future risks. Yet, past hazard experience has been conceptualized and measured in wide-ranging, often simplistic, ways, resulting in mixed findings about its relationship with risk perception. This study develops a scale of past hazard experiences, in the context of tornadoes, that is content and construct valid. A conceptual definition was developed, a set of items were created to measure one's most memorable and multiple tornado experiences, and the measures were evaluated through two surveys of the public who reside in tornado-prone areas. Four dimensions emerged of people's most memorable experience, reflecting their awareness of the tornado risk that day, their personalization of the risk, the intrusive impacts on them personally, and impacts experienced vicariously through others. Two dimensions emerged of people's multiple experiences, reflecting common types of communication received and negative emotional responses. These six dimensions are novel in that they capture people's experience across the timeline of a hazard as well as intangible experiences that are both direct and indirect. The six tornado experience dimensions were correlated with tornado risk perceptions measured as cognitive-affective and as perceived probability of consequences. The varied experience-risk perception results suggest that it is important to understand the nuances of these concepts and their relationships. This study provides a foundation for future work to continue explicating past hazard experience, across different risk contexts, and for understanding its effect on risk assessment and responses.

Depoe, S. (2007). "Environmental Communication as Nexus." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(1): 1-4.
	
Depoe, S. (2008). "The Prospect Ahead." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(1): 1-2.
	
DeRosier, C., et al. (2015). "A comparative analysis of media reporting of perceived risks and benefits of genetically modified crops and foods in Kenyan and international newspapers." Public Understanding of Science 24(5): 563-581.	We empirically examine the reporting on biotechnology in Kenyan and international newspapers between 2010 and early 2014. We identify news articles that reported on biotechnology and analyze their use of words to determine whether there is a balance in the reporting of perceived risks and benefits. We also consider how the sources used in news articles and how the publication of the Seralini study of rats fed genetically modified maize affect the balance of reporting of perceived risks and benefits. We find that in Kenyan news reporting, more articles mention perceived benefits than risks, but when risks are mentioned, new articles contain more references to risks than to benefits. We also find that sources affect the reporting of perceived risks and benefits and that the Seralini study increased the likelihood that perceived risks are reported in Kenyan news reporting, but not in international newspapers.

Derrien, M. M. and P. A. Stokowski (2017). "Discourses of Place: Environmental Interpretation about Vermont Forests." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(2): 276-287.	Motivated by a lack of scholarly attention to the substance of interpretive messages and materials, this study examines discursive aspects of interpretative brochures available at forest recreation and tourism sites in Vermont, United States. Directive statements that instruct and guide visitor experiences-and the discourses to which they contribute-were analyzed for content, form, and meaning. Across the interpretive brochures, four broad discourses were identified: the natural forest, the recreational forest, the productive forest, and the dependent forest. Consideration of intertextuality revealed a fifth, hybrid discourse that linked forests to meanings of Vermont as a distinctive place. The convergence of these discourses across the set of brochures gives insight into the ways interpretation serves to both direct individual visitor experiences at particular sites, and to influence the development of larger-scale place meanings.

DeSilva, M., et al. (2004). "Print media coverage of antibiotic resistance." Science Communication 26(1): 31-43.	We analyzed articles from major newspapers in the United States and Canada (1998-2002) to determine the extent to which articles presented information related to antibiotic resistance. Almost three quarters of the articles analyzed mentioned the problem of antibiotic resistance, but most did so in qualitative terms (e.g., stating that antibiotic-resistant bacteria were "increasingly present")rather than in numerical (e.g., "Twenty-five strains were resistant") or statistical terms(e.g., "Twenty-five out of 100 Streptococcus pneumoniae strains sampled were resistant to vancomycin"). Only one quarter of all articles contained information on two key risk-reduction measures people can take to reduce the spread of antibiotic resistance: taking antibiotics only for bacterial infections, and taking the full course of a prescription. These findings suggest that the print media could improve their reporting on issues associated with antibiotic resistance.

Desmond, E. (2016). "The legitimation of risk and Bt cotton: a case study of Bantala village in Warangal, Andhra Pradesh, India." Journal of Risk Research 19(2): 233-245.
	
Desvousges, W. H. and V. K. Smith (1988). "Focus Groups and Risk Communication - the Science of Listening to Data." Risk Analysis 8(4): 479-484.
	
Detenber, B. H., et al. (2018). "Complementary Versus Competitive Framing Effects in the Context of Pro-Environmental Attitudes and Behaviors." Science Communication 40(2): 173-198.	This study examined the effects of complementary and competitive framing environments on people's support for and attitudes toward pro-environmental behaviors (PEBs) and green energy technologies (GETs). Results suggest that frames have different effects on attitudes and policy support. Relative to the control group, complementary anti-climate action frames lowered attitudes toward PEBs and GETs. Competitive frames led to attitudes toward GETs that were significantly different from the complementary pro- and anti-frame conditions. For policy support, significant differences were found between the complementary pro- and anti-frames, and between the competitive and complementary pro-climate action frames for PEBs.

DeVasto, D. and J. Creighton (2018). "Inspired by the Cosmos: Strategies for Public Engagement in Nonpolicy Contexts." Science Communication 40(6): 808-818.	Public engagement scholarship has explored science-policy settings at length. This work is being complemented by growing scholarly attention to engagement outside of policy spaces. As this expanding focus indicates, these spaces, where publics engage science with lower stakes and less confrontation, should be taken seriously. We explore what engagement in such contexts can look like, offering insights from one site, the planetarium. When coupled with a commitment to fostering public-science conversations, engagement strategies like dialogue, storytelling, analogy, and fostering agency can be instrumental for publics to be heard, which can enrich the efforts of nonpolicy venues. In turn, studying nonpolicy contexts can broaden our understanding of engagement.

Devitt, C. and E. O'Neill (2017). "The framing of two major flood episodes in the Irish print news media: Implications for societal adaptation to living with flood risk." Public Understanding of Science 26(7): 872-888.	Societal adaptation to flooding is a critical component of contemporary flood policy. Using content analysis, this article identifies how two major flooding episodes (2009 and 2014) are framed in the Irish broadsheet news media. The article considers the extent to which these frames reflect shifts in contemporary flood policy away from protection towards risk management, and the possible implications for adaptation to living with flood risk. Frames help us make sense of the social world, and within the media, framing is an essential tool for communication. Five frames were identified: flood resistance and structural defences, politicisation of flood risk, citizen as risk manager, citizen as victim and emerging trade-offs. These frames suggest that public debates on flood management do not fully reflect shifts in contemporary flood policy, with negative implications for the direction of societal adaptation. Greater discussion is required on the influence of the media on achieving policy objectives.

DeWeese, A. D., et al. (2009). "Efficacy of Risk-Based, Culturally Sensitive Ogaa (Walleye) Consumption Advice for Anishinaabe Tribal Members in the Great Lakes Region." Risk Analysis 29(5): 729-742.	The Great Lakes Indian Fish and Wildlife Commission (GLIFWC) has produced Ogaa (walleye-Sander vitreus) consumption advisories since 1996 for Anishinaabe from GLIFWC member tribes in the 1837 and 1842 ceded territories of Wisconsin. GLIFWC's advisory maps were revised in 2005 to address cultural sensitivities (to protect tribal lifeways), to utilize recent mercury exposure information, and to incorporate changes in advisory levels for methyl mercury. Lake-specific, risk-based, culturally sensitive consumption advice was provided on color-coded maps for two groups: children under age 15 years and females of childbearing age, and males 15 years and older and females beyond childbearing age. The maps were distributed to, and a behavioral intervention program developed for, the six GLIFWC member tribes in Wisconsin as well as member tribes in Minnesota and the 1842 ceded territory of Michigan. Tribal fish harvesters, tribal health care providers, women of childbearing age or with young children, tribal leaders, elders, and children were targeted specifically for the behavioral intervention. The efficacy of the behavioral intervention was assessed using surveys of 275 tribal fish harvesters from Wisconsin, 139 tribal harvesters from Michigan and Minnesota, and 156 Wisconsin women of childbearing age. Significant increases in the percentage of survey participants who indicated awareness of advisory maps occurred among Wisconsin harvesters (increase from 60% to 77%), Michigan and Minnesota harvesters (29% to 51%), and women of childbearing age in Wisconsin (40% to 87%). A significant increase in preference for smaller Ogaa occurred among tribal harvesters in Wisconsin (41% to 72%) and tribal harvesters in Michigan and Minnesota (49% to 71%), although not among women of childbearing age. The GLIFWC map-based advisory program did not adversely affect tribal harvest of Ogaa, which increased from 63,000 to 88,000 fish in the three states after the intervention.

Dhar, B. and C. N. Rao (1996). "Trade relatedness of intellectual property rights - Finding the real connections." Science Communication 17(3): 304-325.	This article argues that the proposals regarding patenting which are included in the recent international Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) will strengthen existing trade monopolies and adversely influence technology diffusion between the North and the South. Such an outcome, which would possibly diminish market opportunities for the less affluent nations, would further widen the economic gap between North and South. The article uses a neo-technology theory of trade to shed light on this emerging problem.

Dhar-Chowdhury, P., et al. (2016). "Dengue Disease Risk Mental Models in the City of Dhaka, Bangladesh: Juxtapositions and Gaps Between the Public and Experts." Risk Analysis 36(5): 874-891.	Worldwide, more than 50 million cases of dengue fever are reported every year in at least 124 countries, and it is estimated that approximately 2.5 billion people are at risk for dengue infection. In Bangladesh, the recurrence of dengue has become a growing public health threat. Notably, knowledge and perceptions of dengue disease risk, particularly among the public, are not well understood. Recognizing the importance of assessing risk perception, we adopted a comparative approach to examine a generic methodology to assess diverse sets of beliefs related to dengue disease risk. Our study mapped existing knowledge structures regarding the risk associated with dengue virus, its vector (Aedes mosquitoes), water container use, and human activities in the city of Dhaka, Bangladesh. "Public mental models" were developed from interviews and focus group discussions with diverse community groups; "expert mental models" were formulated based on open-ended discussions with experts in the pertinent fields. A comparative assessment of the public's and experts' knowledge and perception of dengue disease risk has revealed significant gaps in the perception of: (a) disease risk indicators and measurements; (b) disease severity; (c) control of disease spread; and (d) the institutions responsible for intervention. This assessment further identifies misconceptions in public perception regarding: (a) causes of dengue disease; (b) dengue disease symptoms; (c) dengue disease severity; (d) dengue vector ecology; and (e) dengue disease transmission. Based on these results, recommendations are put forward for improving communication of dengue risk and practicing local community engagement and knowledge enhancement in Bangladesh.

DiCaglio, J., et al. (2018). "Rhetorical Recommendations Built on Ecological Experience: A Reassessment of the Challenge of Environmental Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(4): 438-450.	This article reconsiders the challenge of environmental communication by inquiring into the fundamental rhetorical difficulty of thinking in terms of ecology. We discuss two essential yet bewildering aspects of ecology: its focus on interconnection and its use of multiple scales. On this basis, we distil six rhetorical recommendations: a shift from appealing to pre-existing values to avenues for transforming values; a shift from arguments from authority to addressing legitimate resistances; a shift from a focus on mutual agreement to a mutual bewilderment; a shift from intellectual comprehension to personal experience; a shift from negative effects to positive connections; and, finally, a shift from a focus on political results to local transformations. We experiment with this rhetorical approach through two applications: for critical reassessments of past articulations we consider the Gaia Hypothesis and Deep Ecology, and for current refinements to environmental problems we consider controversies around Marcellus Shale gas development

Dickens, D. R. (2011). "Re-crafting Rationalization: Enchanted Science and Mundane Mysteries." Science Communication 33(4): 556-557.
	
Dickinson, E. (2011). "Displaced in Nature: The Cultural Production of (Non-)Place in Place-Based Forest Conservation Pedagogy." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(3): 300-319.	This study examines spatial practices in a forest conservation education program that incorporates place as a tool to teach environmental and forestry issues to schoolchildren and connect them with nature. By analyzing educational forests, "talking-tree trails," classes taught to children, and how visitors move throughout the sites, this paper argues that people and practices within the forests employ a rhetoric of spatial and temporal transience that can enable a displaced experience. Human-nature dualistic tendencies that foster environmental alienation are produced culturally and spatially and are experienced in ways that can promote disconnectedness. Instead of re-placing students with nature, as place-based environmental education promotes, forestry and pedagogical systems can practice nature as non-placed.

Dickinson, E. (2013). "The Misdiagnosis: Rethinking "Nature-deficit Disorder"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(3): 315-335.	This study examines and critiques nature-deficit disorder (NDD), Richard Louv's popular theory of how and why children are alienated from nature. Specifically, I explore NDD within the context of one forest conservation education program that aligns with and operationalizes Louv's message. Underlying Louv's and forest educators' discourses are culturally specific assumptions about human-nature relationships. Both evoke a fall-recovery narrativethat children are separated from nature and must returnand promote science and naming to reconnect. I argue that, in the absence of deeper cultural examination and alternative practices, NDD is a misdiagnosisa problematic contemporary environmental discourse that can obscure and mistreat the problem. I call on adults to rethink human-nature disconnectedness by returning to the psyche, digging deeper to the problem's cultural roots, and using nontraditional communication practices such as emotional expression and non-naming.

Dickson, D. (1999). "Commentary: Getting the message out." Science Communication 21(2): 196-199.	The need to improve the public communication of science surfaced as one of the key themes throughout the World Conference on Science. Although exactly what that entails was never made explicit, it must include a new model that moves beyond the old conveyor-belt approach in which scientists simply transmit information to the public. The role of science communicators in this process is paramount.

Dieckmann, N. F., et al. (2017). "Seeing What You Want to See: How Imprecise Uncertainty Ranges Enhance Motivated Reasoning." Risk Analysis 37(3): 471-486.	In this article, we consider a novel criterion for evaluating representations of uncertainty ranges, namely, the extent to which a representation enhances motivated reasoning. In two studies, we show that perceptions of the distribution underlying ambiguous numerical ranges are affected by the motivations and worldviews of end users. This motivated reasoning effect remained after controlling for objective numeracy and fluid intelligence but was attenuated when the correct interpretation was made clear. We suggest that analysts and communicators explicitly consider the potential for motivated evaluation when evaluating uncertainty displays.

Dieckmann, N. F., et al. (2017). "Public perceptions of expert disagreement: Bias and incompetence or a complex and random world?" Public Understanding of Science 26(3): 325-338.	Expert disputes can present laypeople with several challenges including trying to understand why such disputes occur. In an online survey of the US public, we used a psychometric approach to elicit perceptions of expert disputes for 56 forecasts sampled from seven domains. People with low education, or with low self-reported topic knowledge, were most likely to attribute disputes to expert incompetence. People with higher self-reported knowledge tended to attribute disputes to expert bias due to financial or ideological reasons. The more highly educated and cognitively able were most likely to attribute disputes to natural factors, such as the irreducible complexity and randomness of the phenomenon. Our results show that laypeople tend to use coherentalbeit potentially overly narrowattributions to make sense of expert disputes and that these explanations vary across different segments of the population. We highlight several important implications for scientists, risk managers, and decision makers.

Dieckmann, N. F., et al. (2010). "The Effects of Presenting Imprecise Probabilities in Intelligence Forecasts." Risk Analysis 30(6): 987-1001.	How to assess and present analytic uncertainty to policymakers has emerged as an important topic in risk and policy analysis. Due to the complexity and deep uncertainty present in many forecasting domains, these reports are often fraught with analytic uncertainty. In three studies, we explore the effect of presenting probability assessments and analytic uncertainty through probability ranges. Participants were presented with mock intelligence forecasts that include narrative evidence as well as numerical probability assessments. Participants were sensitive to the ambiguity communicated through the confidence range. The narrative appeared to have a smaller effect on judgments when accompanied by a probability range as opposed to a point assessment. In one study, participants also thought that the probability range was more useful for decision making at a higher probability whereas the point estimate was more useful at a lower probability. When evaluating a forecast in hindsight, decisionmakers tended to report lower levels of blame and higher levels of source credibility for forecasts that reported ranges as compared to point assessments. These findings suggest that decisionmakers are not necessarily "ambiguity averse" in the forecasting context. Presenting ranges of probability may have distinct advantages as a way to communicate probability and analytic confidence to decisionmakers.

Dieckmann, N. F., et al. (2015). "At Home on the Range? Lay Interpretations of Numerical Uncertainty Ranges." Risk Analysis 35(7): 1281-1295.	Numerical uncertainty ranges are often used to convey the precision of a forecast. In three studies, we examined how users perceive the distribution underlying numerical ranges and test specific hypotheses about the display characteristics that affect these perceptions. We discuss five primary conclusions from these studies: (1) substantial variation exists in how people perceive the distribution underlying numerical ranges; (2) distributional perceptions appear similar whether the uncertain variable is a probability or an outcome; (3) the variation in distributional perceptions is due in part to individual differences in numeracy, with more numerate individuals more likely to perceive the distribution as roughly normal; (4) the variation is also due in part to the presence versus absence of common cues used to convey the correct interpretation (e.g., including a best estimate increases perceptions that the distribution is roughly normal); and (5) simple graphical representations can decrease the variance in distributional perceptions. These results point toward significant opportunities to improve uncertainty communication in climate change and other domains.

Dieckmann, N. F., et al. (2012). "Making sense of uncertainty: advantages and disadvantages of providing an evaluative structure." Journal of Risk Research 15(7): 717-735.	In many decision contexts, there is uncertainty in the assessed probabilities and expected consequences of different actions. The fundamental goal for information providers is to present uncertainty in a way that is not overly complicated, yet sufficiently detailed to prompt decision-makers to think about the implications of this uncertainty for the decision at hand. In two experiments, we assess the pros and cons of providing an evaluative structure to facilitate the comprehension and use of uncertainty information and explore whether people who vary in numeracy perceive and use uncertainty in different ways. Participants were presented with scenarios and summary tables describing the anticipated consequences of different environmental-management actions. Our results suggest that different uncertainty formats may lead people to think in particular ways. Laypeople had an easier time understanding the general concept of uncertainty when an evaluative label was presented (e. g. uncertainty is High or Low). However, when asked about a specific possible outcome for an attribute, participants performed better when presented with numerical ranges. Our results also suggest that there appear to be advantages to using evaluative labels, in that they can highlight aspects of uncertainty information that may otherwise be overlooked in more complex numerical displays. However, the salience of evaluative labels appeared to cause some participants to put undue weight on this information, which resulted in value-inconsistent choices. The simplicity and power of providing an evaluative structure is a double-edged sword.

Dieckmann, N. F., et al. (2009). "The Use of Narrative Evidence and Explicit Likelihood by Decisionmakers Varying in Numeracy." Risk Analysis 29(10): 1473-1488.	Decisionmakers are often presented with explicit likelihood assessments (e.g., there is a 10% chance that an attack will occur over the next three months) and supporting narrative evidence in forecasting and risk communication domains. Decisionmakers are thought to rely on both numerical and narrative information to the extent that they perceive the information to be diagnostic, accurate, and trustworthy. In two studies, we explored how lay decisionmakers varying in numeracy evaluated and used likelihood assessments and narrative evidence in forecasts. Overall, the less numerate reported higher risk and likelihood perceptions. In simple probabilistic forecasts without narrative evidence, decisionmakers at all levels of numeracy were able to use the stated likelihood information, although risk perceptions of the less numerate were more affected by likelihood format. When a forecast includes narrative evidence, decisionmakers were better able to use stated likelihood in a percentage as compared to frequency or verbal formats. The more numerate used stated likelihood more in their evaluations whereas the less numerate focused more on the narrative evidence. These results have important implications for risk analysts and forecasters who need to report the results of their analyses to decisionmakers. Decisionmakers varying in numerical ability may evaluate forecasts in different ways depending on the types of information they find easiest to evaluate.

Dietrich, H. and R. Schibeci (2003). "Beyond public perceptions of gene technology: community participation in public policy in Australia." Public Understanding of Science 12(4): 381-401.	Public policy assumptions, which view "the public" as passive consumers, are deeply flawed. "The public" are, in fact, active citizens, who constitute the innovation end of the seamless web of relationships, running from research and development laboratory to shop, hospital or farm, or local neighborhood. "The public" do not receive the impact of technology; they are the impact, in that they determine with gene technology (GT) developers and sellers what happens to the technology in our society. In doing so, they, or more rightly we, exercise particular, contextual knowledges and actions. We suggest that it is the ignorance of this aspect of innovation in policy processes that produces the distrust and resentment that we found in our interviews with "publics" interested in gene technology. This is consistent with Beck's description of the deep structural states of risk and fear in modem advanced societies with respect to new technologies, such as gene technology. Only policy processes that recognize the particular, local, and contextual knowledges of "the public," which co-construct innovation, can achieve deep, social structural consideration of gene technology. And only such a deep consideration can avoid the polarized attitudes and deep suspicions that we have seen arise in places such as Britain. Such consideration needs the type of processes that involve active consultation and inclusion of "the public" in government and commercial innovation, the so-called deliberative and inclusionary processes (DIPs), such as consensus conferences and citizen juries. We suggest some measures that could be tried in Australia, which would take us further down the path of participation toward technological citizenship.

Dijkstra, A. M. and C. R. Critchley (2016). "Nanotechnology in Dutch science cafes: Public risk perceptions contextualised." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 71-87.	Understanding public perceptions of and attitudes to nanotechnology is important in order to understand and facilitate processes of dialogue and public participation. This research quantitatively analysed risk perceptions and attitudes of Dutch science cafe participants (n = 233) and compared these with members of the Dutch public (n = 378) who had not attended a cafe but were interested in science and technology as well. A qualitative analysis of the meetings contextualised and enriched the quantitative findings. Both groups shared similar key attitudes and were positive about nanotechnology while the Dutch cafe participants were even more positive about nanotechnology than the group of non-participants. The perception that nanotechnology would lead to risk applications was only predictive of attitudes for the non-participants. The qualitative analysis showed that cafe participants and speakers considered discussion of the risks, benefits and related issues important. Further research could investigate how science cafes can play a role in the science-society debate.

Dijkstra, A. M. and J. M. Gutteling (2012). "Communicative Aspects of the Public-Science Relationship Explored: Results of Focus Group Discussions About Biotechnology and Genomics." Science Communication 34(3): 363-391.	Communication and the way this communication process is perceived by different publics is part of the public-science relationship. This article presents qualitative data with respect to biotechnology and genomics communication and identifies similarities and differences among publics in various roles. Focus group discussions were conducted with members of the general public, active consumers, patients, and genomics experts in the Netherlands. The analysis demonstrated that these publics prefer varied communication approaches that depend on their particular roles, with varying possibilities of participation. In all cases, transparency and openness as basic communication elements have to be fulfilled to gain trust from these publics.

Dijkstra, A. M., et al. (2012). "Public participation in genomics research in the Netherlands: Validating a measurement scale." Public Understanding of Science 21(4): 465-477.	Nowadays, new technologies, like genomics, cannot be developed without the support of the public. However, although interested, the public does not always actively participate in science issues when offered the opportunity via public participation activities. In a study aimed at validating a measurement scale, first, we investigated if public participation existed, and, secondly, we investigated how levels of public participation in genomics research varied among groups. Finally, we studied which factors predicted public participation. Results were based on a questionnaire with four subsamples. Results confirmed, first of all, the internal consistency of the measurement scale to assess levels of public participation. Secondly, the groups differed significantly with regard to their levels of participation in genomics research. Finally, the findings revealed that information-seeking behaviour, knowledge and education were main predictors of public participation, while interest, social involvement, and trust and influence had some influence together with age and gender.

Dijkstra, A. M. and M. Schuijff (2016). "Public opinions about human enhancement can enhance the expert-only debate: A review study." Public Understanding of Science 25(5): 588-602.	Human enhancement, the non-medical use of biomedical technologies to improve the human body or performance beyond their natural' limitations, is a growing trend. At the same time, the use of these technologies has societal consequences. In societal debates about human enhancement, however, it is mainly the voices of experts that are being heard, and little is known about the public's understanding of human enhancement. The views of the public can give valuable insights, and can, in turn, supplement experts' voices in political decision-making as has been argued before for other emerging technologies. This study presents a systematic literature review of current public perceptions and attitudes towards technologies for human enhancement. Results show that the public's view has not been assessed often. Studies originate mainly from western-oriented countries and cover a broad range of enhancement technologies. In the studies, the majority of respondents hold moderate to strong negative attitudes towards enhancement technologies for non-medical applications, although the type of technology influences these opinions. The study provides an overview of what is known about citizens' attitudes towards technologies for human enhancement.

Dillon, J. (2007). "Motivating science. Science communication from a philosophical, educational and cultural perspective." Public Understanding of Science 16(1): 113-115.
	
Dillon, R. L., et al. (2012). "Differentiating Conflicts in Beliefs Versus Value Tradeoffs in the Domestic Intelligence Policy Debate." Risk Analysis 32(4): 713-728.	Since the 9/11 terrorist attacks, there has been an increase in public discussion regarding U.S. domestic intelligence activities. Domestic intelligence activities focus on gathering information about potential threats from individuals within the United States, and completely rational members of the public can have different opinions about the acceptability of various alternatives depending on one's values toward privacy, civil liberty, and security. Past studies have demonstrated that construction of a multiobjective value model can help clarify public values in controversial risk debates. This research explores a range of domestic intelligence alternatives that vary on multiple objectives, and applies value-focused thinking to develop a multiattribute utility model to evaluate and compare the alternatives. The process demonstrates the feasibility of eliciting model parameters from individuals and provides a method for identifying the locus of possible disagreements among individuals. The development of the model is described first, followed by insights found from participants who provided both value tradeoffs and performance scores for six different domestic intelligence alternatives. The participants were two student groups and a group of police officers. The analysis showed differences among weights for an additive model for different stakeholder groups and differences among the performance scores. In particular, there is a halo effect for alternatives, such that its supporters ranked the alternative higher on all attributes compared to respondents who find the alternative unacceptable. This modeling approach and results offer organizations such as the Department of Homeland Security insights into the debate surrounding new policy initiatives, particularly those requiring sensitive value tradeoffs.

Dillon, R. L., et al. (2011). "Why Near-Miss Events Can Decrease an Individual's Protective Response to Hurricanes." Risk Analysis 31(3): 440-449.	Prior research shows that when people perceive the risk of some hazardous event to be low, they are unlikely to engage in mitigation activities for the potential hazard. We believe one factor that can lower inappropriately (from a normative perspective) people's perception of the risk of a hazard is information about prior near-miss events. A near-miss occurs when an event (such as a hurricane), which had some nontrivial probability of ending in disaster (loss of life, property damage), does not because good fortune intervenes. People appear to mistake such good fortune as an indicator of resiliency. In our first study, people with near-miss information were less likely to purchase flood insurance, and this was shown for both participants from the general population and individuals with specific interests in risk and natural disasters. In our second study, we consider a different mitigation decision, that is, to evacuate from a hurricane, and vary the level of statistical probability of hurricane damage. We still found a strong effect for near-miss information. Our research thus shows how people who have experienced a similar situation but escape damage because of chance will make decisions consistent with a perception that the situation is less risky than those without the past experience. We end by discussing the implications for risk communication.

Dimopoulos, K. and V. Koulaidis (2002). "The socio-epistemic constitution of science and technology in the Greek press: an analysis of its presentation." Public Understanding of Science 11(3): 225-241.	This paper aims to analyze the way in, which the Greek press treats the socio-epistemic constitution of science and technology. By "socio-epistemic constitution" we mean the following dimensions: (a) techno-scientific methodology, (b) the social organization of the techno-scientific endeavor, and (c) the interactions of science and technology with other public spheres. Our methodology is based on a content analysis of a sample consisting of 1,867 relevant articles from four national Greek newspapers. The analysis showed that although there is a constant flow of techno-scientific articles, the internal aspects (methodology and internal organization) of science and technology become apparent in only a small minority of these articles. By contrast, external relationships, mainly with politics and economics, are emphasized by focusing on the positive social impact of the techno-scientific endeavor. In general, the Greek press makes a positive contribution to the advancement of the public understanding of science and technology, as the prominent presentation of some of their socio-epistemological components forms a realistic "post-academic" image of these two areas.

Dingel, M. J. and J. Sprague (2010). "Research and reporting on the development of sex in fetuses: gendered from the start." Public Understanding of Science 19(2): 181-196.	Research into human genetics has been expanding rapidly and most people learn about that research from mass media. Because prior research finds gender bias in aspects of both science and the media, we investigate the messages presented to the public concerning the relationship between biology and gender, taking as a case research on the genetic development of sexual difference before birth. We examine both the science that is getting media attention and the form that coverage takes. We find that gendered assumptions direct the science but also that scholarly discourse makes gender biases in method and interpretation accessible to scientific critique. On the other hand, mass media reporting ignores feminist critiques, marginalizes women and dramatically reinscribes gendered beliefs about the inherent superiority of men and the biological basis for gender differences in personality and behavior.

Dingwall, R. and M. Aldridge (2006). "Television wildlife programming as a source of popular scientific information: a case study of evolution." Public Understanding of Science 15(2): 131-152.	The wildlife television documentary is an important but problematic genre, located between education and entertainment. Noting that the genre has characteristics that may increase its impact on the audience, this paper reviews its potential significance for science communication through a case study of the presentation of issues relating to evolution. First, the continuing popular and political support for creationism is examined, and then the new movement in support of Intelligent Design Creationism outlined. Based on an extensive sample of internationally produced programs, the research findings discussed in the paper focus on two dominant sub-genres: "blue chip" and "presenter-led". While the former has higher production values and asserts greater authority, the pressures for a strong narrative discourage explorations of the contingency and amorality of evolution. The outcome is, typically, a text that does not challenge creationist accounts and may even implicitly endorse them. Paradoxically, we argue, although the presenter-led format is regarded as lower status within the media industry, it may offer more opportunities for conveying the complexity that is associated with evolutionary accounts. The authors conclude that the market context of television wildlife programming means that educational and entertainment aims and claims are indeed in tension, but with a counter-intuitive outcome.

Dionne, T. J. (2016). "Strange natures: futurity, empathy, and the queer ecological imagination." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 821-822.
	
Diprose, K., et al. (2018). "Corporations, Consumerism and Culpability: Sustainability in the British Press." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(5): 672-685.	Sustainability and sustainable development are prominent themes in international policy-making, corporate PR, news-media and academic scholarship. Its definitions are contested, however sustainability is associated with a three-pillar focus on economic development, environmental conservation and social justice, most recently espoused in the adoption of the UN Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. In spite of its common usage, there is little research about how sustainability is represented and refracted in public discourse in different national contexts. We examine British national press coverage of sustainability and sustainable development in 2015 in a cross-market sample of national newspapers. Our findings show that key international policy events and environmental and social justice frames are peripheral, while neoliberalism and neoliberal environmentalism vis-a-vis the promotion of technocratic solutions, corporate social responsibility and sustainable consumerism are the predominant frames through which the British news-media reports sustainability. This holds regardless of newspaper quality and ideological orientation.

Dirikx, A. and D. Gelders (2010). "To frame is to explain: A deductive frame-analysis of Dutch and French climate change coverage during the annual UN Conferences of the Parties." Public Understanding of Science 19(6): 732-742.	This study examines the way Dutch and French newspapers frame climate change during the annual United Nations Conferences of the Parties. The methods used in previous studies on the framing of climate change do not allow for general cross-national comparisons. We conduct a quantitative deductive framing analysis on 257 quality Dutch and French newspaper articles between 2001 and 2007. Both countries' newspapers seem to frame climate change through mainly the same lens. The majority of the articles make reference to the consequences of the (non-) pursuit of a certain course of action and of possible losses and gains (consequences frame). Additionally, many articles mention the need for urgent actions, refer to possible solutions and suggest that governments are responsible for and/or capable of alleviating climate change problems (responsibility frame). Finally, the conflict frame was found to be used less often than the aforementioned frames, but more regularly than the human interest frame.

Dirikx, A. and D. Gelders (2010). "Ideologies Overruled? An Explorative Study of the Link Between Ideology and Climate Change Reporting in Dutch and French Newspapers." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(2): 190-205.	This article studies the relationship between the ideology of newspapers and their climate change coverage. Previous research has focused on the British press (Carvalho, 2007; Carvalho Burgess, 2005). Our research broadens this scope to the French and Dutch media. The results show that the ideology of newspapers in the Netherlands is not related to climate change coverage, while in France the ideology of newspapers is related to some key aspects of climate change coverage, i.e., the presentation of the necessity of actions against climate change and the tone of climate change coverage. The findings suggests that ideological cultures play a role in the coverage of climate change in countries in which global warming has brought about much discussion in the political field and that are characterized by a highly competitive media landscape which is historically related to the political field.

Dirk, L. (1996). "From laboratory to scientific literature - The life and death of biomedical research results." Science Communication 18(1): 3-28.	This study documents the course of submission of a group of biomedical research papers to peer-reviewed journals and characterizes their quality through citation analysis for published papers and through a typology of originality for those papers that were never accepted. Of fifty-nine papers, 47 percent (n = 28) were accepted by the first journal to which they were submitted 25 percent (n = 15) by the second, and 7 percent (n = 6) by the third to sixth journal. For the first five years of publication, the average citation rate per year was 1.5, and 43 percent had more than I citation per year Fifteen papers (25 percent) were never accepted. Typologic analysis of five of these papers suggests some standards by which it may be possible to characterize scientific originality.

Dixon, G., et al. (2017). "Improving Climate Change Acceptance Among US Conservatives Through Value-Based Message Targeting." Science Communication 39(4): 520-534.	Although prior research has identified communication strategies for reducing climate change skepticism, recent research suggests such approaches can backfire. To explore this issue, we report on a preliminary study investigating two prominent messaging styles: consensus and targeted messages. While consensus messaging did not produce significant effects, targeted messages emphasizing free market solutions to climate change were effective at improving conservatives' climate change acceptance. Furthermore, the inclusion of consensus information did not improve or diminish the effects of the targeted messages. These findings underscore the utility of targeted messaging in improving climate change acceptance among political conservatives.

Dixon, G. and A. Hubner (2018). "Neutralizing the Effect of Political Worldviews by Communicating Scientific Agreement: A Thought-Listing Study." Science Communication 40(3): 393-415.	Messages emphasizing scientific agreement are increasingly used to communicate politically polarizing issues. Proponents argue that these messages neutralize the effect of people's political worldviews due to the neutral scientific character of the message. Yet this argument has not undergone extensive testing. Addressing this, we measured participants' thoughts on scientists featured in messages emphasizing scientific agreement on politically dissonant issues. Our results show that readers often produce less favorable thoughts and moral judgments when scientists agree on a politically dissonant issue. As a result, messages emphasizing scientific agreement on politicized issues might not always neutralize the effect of people's political worldviews.

Dixon, G., et al. (2016). "Transparency in the food aisle: the influence of procedural justice on views about labeling GM foods." Journal of Risk Research 19(9): 1158-1171.	Issues of transparency lay at the center of the debate surrounding the labeling of genetically modified (GM) food products in the USA. These issues include not only the argument that consumers should be allowed to make purchasing choices based on full disclosure of product ingredients but also that they should have access to the process that makes decisions about labeling. This study examines the influence of procedural justice on perceived decision legitimacy and decision support regarding GM food labeling decisions. Using a 2x2 factorial design, participants recruited from an online Qualtrics panel (N=450) were randomly assigned to read a fictitious news article about an agricultural company's decision about whether to label their food products as having GM ingredients. Articles varied by the company's labeling decision (label versus no label) and whether the company listened to public input prior to making the decision (public input versus no public input). The results showed significant main effects on decision support and perceived legitimacy for articles that mentioned public input. Specifically, when participants read articles stating that the company made its decision after listening to public input, they were more supportive of the decision and perceived the decision as more legitimate. Moreover, this main effect occurred irrespective of whether or not the company's decision was to label GM foods. Our results confirm the influence of procedural justice perceptions in fostering support and perceived legitimacy for controversial risk-related decisions.

Dixon, G. N. and C. E. Clarke (2013). "Heightening Uncertainty Around Certain Science: Media Coverage, False Balance, and the Autism-Vaccine Controversy." Science Communication 35(3): 358-382.	To investigate how balanced presentations of the autism-vaccine controversy influence judgments of vaccine risk, we randomly assigned 327 participants to news articles that presented balanced claims both for and against an autism-vaccine link, antilink claims only, prolink claims only, or unrelated information. Readers in the balanced condition were less certain that vaccines did not cause autism and more likely to believe experts were divided on the issue. The relationship between exposure to balanced coverage and certainty was mediated by the belief that medical experts are divided about a potential autism-vaccine link. We discuss theoretical and practical implications of these findings.

Dixon, H., et al. (2009). "The prostate cancer screening debate: public reaction to medical controversy in the media." Public Understanding of Science 18(1): 115-128.	This study explored older men's and their partners' reactions to a television news program on the medical debate surrounding the use of the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test for prostate cancer screening. Six focus groups, split by gender and socio-economic status (SES), were conducted with men aged 50 years or older (n = 28) and female partners of such men (n = 13). A self-completion questionnaire was also used to yield quantitative indices. In general, viewers appeared to appreciate from the debate that there was controversy surrounding prostate cancer screening, and they recognized that PSA testing is more applicable to certain subgroups of men. Although there were differences by SES and gender, the results suggest that exposing health consumers to medical uncertainty and "expert" conflict can help raise awareness of the issue and complexities involved. However, there was evidence to suggest that health consumers may be better able to negotiate conflicting medical information if the different sides of the argument are plainly noted and a clear distinction is made between opinion and evidence. This study has broader relevance to the management of media coverage of medical controversies by public health organizations.

Djerf-Pierre, M., et al. (2016). "Framing Renewable Energy: A Comparative Study of Newspapers in Australia and Sweden." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(5): 634-655.	Australia and Sweden display very different institutional settings and contexts for the production of environmental journalism. This empirical study examined how two major quality newspapers in Sweden and Australia have framed renewable energy as an environmental, political, scientific, economic and civil society issue. A deductive, quantitative methodological approach was used to identify dominant frames and actors in articles in The Australian (Australia) and Dagens Nyheter (Sweden) between October 2010 and June 2011 2010/2011. The findings suggest that the attention given to different types of renewable energy in the two newspapers and how issues were framed was contingent on the domestication of the discussion of renewable energy in the two countries. Reporting on renewable energy in both newspapers was characterized by a focus on elite actors and economic frames, the absence of civil society frames and negative (The Australian) or ambiguous (Dagens Nyheter) environmental frames. The study extends our understanding of the contextual conditions that enable and limit journalists when reporting environmental issues.

Dobos, A. R., et al. (2015). "Does a picture tell a thousand words? The uses of digitally produced, multimodal pictures for communicating information about Alzheimer's disease." Public Understanding of Science 24(6): 712-730.	This study explored the science communication potential of visual imagery by gauging an audience's interpretations of digitally enhanced, multimodal pictures depicting topics from recent Alzheimer's disease research. Guided by social semiotic theory, we created four pictures intended to communicate information about Alzheimer's disease unidirectionally, for an audience who had expressed interest in receiving such information (subscribers to an Alzheimer's disease research newsletter). We then disseminated the pictures to that audience via an online survey, to determine whether respondents received the messages we intended to convey. Our results demonstrated that, without accompanying explanatory text, pictures are most useful for evoking emotions or making loose connections between major concepts, rather than for communicating specific messages based on Alzheimer's research. In addition, participants more often expressed anger and frustration when the meaning of scientific imagery was unclear than when the meaning of emotional-social imagery was unclear.

Dodds, R. E., et al. (2008). "Making Sense scientific claims in advertising. A study of scientifically aware consumers." Public Understanding of Science 17(2): 211-230.	Evidence that science is becoming increasingly embedded in culture comes from the proliferation of discourses of ethical consumption, sustainability, and environmental awareness. Al Gore's recent award, along with UN's Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) of the Nobel peace prize - provided a recent high profile linking of consumption and science. It is not clear to what extent the public at large engages in evaluating the scientific merits of the arguments about the link between human consumption and global environmental catastrophes. But on a local scale, we are routinely required to evaluate, scientific and pseudoscientific claims in advertising. Since advertising is used to sell products, the discourse of scientifically framed claims is being used to persuade consumers of the benefits of these products. In the case of functional foods and cosmetics, such statements are deployed to promote the health benefits and effectiveness of their products. This exploratory study examines the views of British consumers about the scientific and pseudoscientific claims made in advertisements for foods, with particular reference to functional foods, and cosmetics. The participants in the study all worked in scientific environments, though they were not all scientists. The study found that scientific arguments that were congruent with existing health knowledge tended to be accepted while pseudoscientific knowledge was regarded skeptically and concerns were raised over the accuracy and believability of the pseudoscientific claims. It appears that scientific awareness may play a part in consumers' ability to critically examine scientifically and pseudoscientifically based advertising claims.

Doering-Manteuffel, S. (2011). "Survival of occult practices and ideas in modern common sense." Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 292-302.	For a long time rationalism and materialism were the most important ideological undercurrents of the Western world. Since the Enlightenment, in the eighteenth century, they have influenced the Age of Reason. During the past few decades, the so-called New Age originated strong counter-movements have produced a huge number of different new world-views. They are to be considered as part of the wide field of occultism, and run out in different directions. The belief in angels and in the power of fate, the communication with the dead, and the conviction of a life after death are all expressions of a desire to transcend and of a search for higher powers that watch over each person. Additionally, helpers and healers have created a marketplace to promote esoteric services. Media usage, the need to transcend and this new market interested in the magical signal a new era of consciousness in which reason and technology do not contradict mysticism and the transmission of wisdom: these go, instead, hand in hand.

Dohle, S., et al. (2012). "Fear and anger: antecedents and consequences of emotional responses to mobile communication." Journal of Risk Research 15(4): 435-446.	Many people fear that exposure to mobile phone base stations leads to severe health effects. In addition to those fears, many citizens are unsatisfied or even angry about prevailing base station site-selection procedures. In the present study, it was investigated how these emotions, i.e. fear and anger, determine risk and benefit perceptions and the acceptance of mobile communication. Using structural equation modeling, we found that benefit perception and the acceptance of mobile phone base stations were primarily determined by anger. Risk perception, in contrast was influenced by both emotions. In addition, controllability and fairness emerged as important cognitive appraisals, or antecedents, of fear and anger, while certainty was not related to these emotions. In sum, our findings highlight that fear and anger have specific influences on risk, benefit, and acceptance of mobile communication. Furthermore, the study provides an in-depth understanding of the antecedents that lead to emotional responses within the context of mobile communication. Implications for risk communication will be derived.

Dombroski, M., et al. (2006). "Predicting emergency evacuation and sheltering behavior: A structured analytical approach." Risk Analysis 26(6): 1675-1688.	We offer a general approach to predicting public compliance with emergency recommendations. It begins with a formal risk assessment of an anticipated emergency, whose parameters include factors potentially affecting and affected by behavior, as identified by social science research. Standard procedures are used to elicit scientific experts' judgments regarding these behaviors and dependencies, in the context of an emergency scenario. Their judgments are used to refine the model and scenario, enabling local emergency coordinators to predict the behavior of citizens in their area. The approach is illustrated with a case study involving a radiological dispersion device (RDD) exploded in downtown Pittsburgh, PA. Both groups of experts (national and local) predicted approximately 80-90% compliance with an order to evacuate workplaces and 60-70% compliance with an order to shelter in place at home. They predicted 10% lower compliance for people asked to shelter at the office or to evacuate their homes. They predicted 10% lower compliance should the media be skeptical, rather than supportive. They also identified preparatory policies that could improve public compliance by 20-30%. We consider the implications of these results for improving emergency risk assessment models and for anticipating and improving preparedness for disasters, using Hurricane Katrina as a further case in point.

Dominguez, M. (2014). "Einstein Versus Neutrinos: The Two Cultures Revisited With the Media Coverage of a Scientific News Item in Cartoons." Science Communication 36(2): 248-259.	This article focuses on the news coverage given to the CERN (European Organization for Nuclear Research) announcement that neutrinos might exceed the speed of light, flying in the face of Albert Einstein's theory. By studying 140 cartoons about the news item published between the CERN's announcement at the end of September 2011 up until its refutation in February 2012, we selected 33 devoted to Albert Einstein. We study the iconographic use of Einstein's figure, and how the suggestion he might have been wrong stirred up greater interest among the cartoonists than when it was proven his ideas are still fully in force.

Dominguez, M., et al. (2017). "Taking climate change seriously: An analysis of op-ed articles in Spanish press." Public Understanding of Science 26(7): 861-871.	In this article, we study the evolution of opinion genres regarding climate change in three Spanish newspapers (El Pais, El Mundo, and ABC). Analyzing the op-ed articles in these newspapers, we observe a significant change in the evolution of opinion. While denialism was very present in conservative press in 2007, 7 years later it is almost absent from El Mundo, and its presence in ABC is much lower and inactive: this shows that scientific consensus has prevailed over time and Spanish denialism has weakened, exclusively supported by political arguments by the most conservative parties.

Dominguez, M. and A. Mateu (2013). "Spanish Darwinian iconography: Darwin and evolutionism portrayed in Spanish press cartoons." Public Understanding of Science 22(8): 999-1010.	The theory of evolution has played a major role in the press since it was put forward by Charles Darwin in 1859. Its key role in biology and human philosophy is reflected by its presence in press cartoons, sections where the image of social reality is depicted in a more direct and satirical light. Through cartoons, artists have used their ingenuity or wit to portray one of the most controversial scientific figures of the past two centuries. This study examines the views portrayed by Spanish cartoonists about Charles Darwin and evolutionary theory in 2009, the bicentenary of the naturalist's birth and the celebration of 150 years since the publication of On the Origin of Species. These cartoons show how the controversy between Darwinism and religion remain latent in the heart of Spanish society, and how the figure of Darwin has become one of the main icons of science.

Donk, A., et al. (2012). "Framing Emerging Technologies: Risk Perceptions of Nanotechnology in the German Press." Science Communication 34(1): 5-29.	Nanotechnology cannot be directly experienced and observed-all that people know about it and their interpretations and opinions are mainly based on information from the mass media. Therefore, this first systematic study of the German media coverage about nanotechnology aims to analyse the media frames of this emerging technology. It comprises a standardized content analysis of nine print media from 2000 to 2008, which shows that the German media framing is predominantly very positive, specifically emphasizing the medical and economic benefits of nanotechnology. There is hardly any critical coverage opposing this one-sided perspective of progress. This result corresponds to the international media coverage.

Donner, S. D. (2017). "Risk and Responsibility in Public Engagement by Climate Scientists: Reconsidering Advocacy During the Trump Era." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(3): 430-433.	The election as US President of Donald J Trump, who denies the scientific consensus on climate change, raises questions about the role of scientists in public discourse. How far should scientists wade into the waters of advocacy before risking their credibility of fair arbiters of knowledge? The new study by Kotcher, Myers, Vraga, Stenhouse, and Maibach [2017. Does engagement in advocacy hurt the credibility of scientists? Results from a randomized national survey experiment. Environmental Communication. doi: 10.1080/17524032.2016.1275736] is a reminder that scientists are among the most trusted people in public life and have some freedom to engage publicly without harming their reputation. However, with the power to influence public debate comes the responsibility to carefully consider the impact of statements and actions. This commentary discusses the challenges facing scientists at a time of great potential for public engagement, and for a gap between perceived and actual intent of public statements.

Donoghue, J. and A. Fisher (2008). "Activism Via Humus: The Composters Decode Decomponomics." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(2): 229-236.	Inspired by a graduate seminar on protest and performance and aimed at opposing our city's composting ordinances, we founded a multimedia performance duo, the Composters, to engage in what we call "activism via humus.'' We have performed at a multitude of US venues, tailoring our script to local politics and global environmental issues. Using the satirical personas of Mary Mercury and Glenda Greenhouse and the metaphor of compost, we theorize and embody, with an ecofeminist sensibility, the realities and hypocrisies of contemporary environmental and social politics. "Decomponomics'' is a show we wrote, performed, and toured in the summer of 2007. Our origin and sustainability as performance activists is as organic, complex, and process-oriented as compost itself. For compost, death and decay are the literal foundation for future growth. For us, expired policies and opinions are thrown on the compost heap and satirically turned, becoming the metaphoric foundation for activism.

Donovan, A., et al. (2017). "Expert opinion and probabilistic volcanic risk assessment." Journal of Risk Research 20(6): 693-710.	We present data from an international survey of scientists working at volcanic observatories concerning eruption likelihoods. The scientists were asked a range of questions using different types of phrasing. The data suggest that the phrasing of questions affects the ways in which probabilities are estimated. In total, 71% of respondents (N = 70) exhibited some form of inconsistency in their answers between and/or within different question formats. The data also allow for an analysis of the use of scaling in probabilistic assessment, and the use of quantitative versus verbal risk measurements. However, some respondents were uncomfortable with providing any numerical probability estimate, perhaps suggesting that they considered the uncertainty too high for meaningful judgements to be made.

Doolin, B. and J. Motion (2010). "Christian lay understandings of preimplantation genetic diagnosis." Public Understanding of Science 19(6): 669-685.	Focus groups were used to analyse Christian lay public understanding of preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD), a relatively new biomedical practice. The paper explores how this often controversial genetic technology was contextualised and interpreted through the intersection of religious values and beliefs, secular and cultural knowledges, and lived experience and emotion. For the lay people in our study, PGD often created moral dilemmas that could not necessarily be resolved through Christian beliefs and teaching, but which required the expression of empathy and compassion. The findings emphasise the heterogeneity in individuals' interpretations of scientific issues and reinforce the need to consider public understanding of science and technology in terms of public concerns and meaning.

Doremus, P. N. (1995). "The Externalization of Domestic Regulation - Intellectual Property-Rights Reform in a Global Era." Science Communication 17(2): 137-162.	Intellectual property rights (IPR) issues in the semiconductor; software, and biotechnology industries exemplify the pressure that new technologies and international competition are placing on domestic and international regulatory system. Traditional patent and copyright rules cannot easily accommodate any of these technologies. At the same time, the high costs of research and development, relative ease of replication, and global markets characteristic of these technologies heighten the importance of both domestic and foreign IPR protection. In the context of rapidly changing technological conditions, borderless markets, and inflexible international regimes, national policymakers face a political dilemma: how to accommodate new technologies at home, encourage similar accommodation abroad, and do both without undermining either long-standing domestic IPR arrangements or the international patent and copyright regimes. This article reviews the different strategies of externalization associated with IPR reform in the software, biotechnology, and semiconductor industries. Variations across these cares indicate that fundamentally different technological market and political conditions can lead to different strategies for equilibrating incompatible and highly contested domestic and international regulatory rules.

Dotson, D. M., et al. (2012). "Media Coverage of Climate Change in Chile: A Content Analysis of Conservative and Liberal Newspapers." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(1): 64-81.	Media influence public awareness through agenda setting and framing of news by selecting what is published, how frequently and through what frames. This content analysis compares portrayals of climate change based on political ideology of the media. It examines daily coverage of climate change in Santiago, Chile by the conservative, El Mercurio, newspaper, and the liberal, La Nacion. Twenty percent of the 1,628 articles published in 2003, 2005, and 2007 which included the words "cambio climatico" (climate change) or "calentamiento global" (global warming) were analyzed for frequency, content, images, and frames. The liberal newspaper published twice as many articles that were twice as long, with four times as many illustrations about climate change. They presented more thematic and diverse frames than the conservative newspaper. Government sources and conflict frames dominated both newspapers, reflecting some similar maturation processes of climate change coverage found in Europe, the United States, and elsewhere.

Dowell, E. and E. Weitkamp (2012). "An exploration of the collaborative processes of making theatre inspired by science." Public Understanding of Science 21(7): 891-901.	This research examined the collaborative processes of making theatre inspired by science through the analysis of 16 semi-structured interviews with individual collaborators (eight theatre practitioners and eight scientists). Interviews explored experiences, including their motivations, working processes, challenges, learning and understanding. Roles of scientists in the collaboration ranged from expert advisor to equal creative collaborator. Factors affecting partnerships included curiosity for each other's practice, social interaction and mutual respect. The research suggests that scientists could be motivated to undertake 'Sci-Art' collaborations through personal interest, as well as previously identified motives such as encouragement from their department. The project also identified benefits to researchers from such collaborations, including developing new perspectives on their own practice.

Doyle, J. (2016). "Celebrity vegans and the lifestyling of ethical consumption." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 777-790.	Veganism offers an important critique of unethical and unsustainable food production practices, yet vegans have been historically stigmatized in mainstream media. Given the recent prominence of celebrity vegans, this article asks, how might the cultural intermediary work of vegan celebrities make the ethical practice of veganism more accessible? And how do vegans' ethical concerns about the exploitative production and consumption of animals as food and byproducts get reframed in the context of celebrity consumer culture? Bringing together philosophies of ethical veganism and eco-feminism with literature on ethical (food) consumption and celebrity culture, this article analyses the educational campaigning work on veganism by Hollywood actor, Alicia Silverstone and TV chat show host, Ellen DeGeneres. It finds that veganism is figured as a diet and lifestyle that foregrounds an ethics of care, compassion, kindness and emotion-about and for humans, animals and environment-consistent with ethical veganism. Yet these ethics are reworked through the commodity logic of celebrity culture to make it more marketable and thus consumable as a set of ideas and gendered lifestyle practices, where the individual choice is to be a healthy, happy and kind self. The tensions between ethical veganism as an intervention at the point of consumption within the production of exploitative and gendered human/animal/environmental relations, and the focus upon an individualized lifestyle politics through which celebrities maintain their commodity status, thus coalesce in the work of celebrity vegans.

Doyle, J. K., et al. (1991). "Protective Responses to Household Risk - a Case-Study of Radon Mitigation." Risk Analysis 11(1): 121-134.
	
Dragojlovic, N. and E. Einsiedel (2013). "Framing Synthetic Biology: Evolutionary Distance, Conceptions of Nature, and the Unnaturalness Objection." Science Communication 35(5): 547-571.	Under what conditions does the perceived "unnaturalness" of a specific application of synthetic biology influence its public acceptability? Using data from a framing experiment embedded in a national survey of Canadian adults, we argue that this consideration leads to negative perceptions of the technology only when opponents of the application use rhetoric that refers to its unnaturalness and when characteristics of the application itself, such as the use of genetic material from "dissimilar" organisms, increase the perceived relevance of such arguments. Additionally, we find that individuals who view nature as sacred or spiritual are most responsive to unnaturalness framing.

Dragojlovic, N. and E. Einsiedel (2013). "Playing God or just unnatural? Religious beliefs and approval of synthetic biology." Public Understanding of Science 22(7): 869-885.	Using evidence from a 2010 survey of 32 European publics, this article argues that belief in God increases disapproval for synthetic biology through two different mechanisms, depending on the strength of the individual's belief. Among weak believers, belief in God appears to be associated with the increased availability and accessibility of the idea that genetic manipulation interferes with nature. Strong believers, in contrast, appear to also engage in an explicitly theological evaluation of synthetic biology, with opposition to synthetic biology resulting from the perception that the creation of new types of organisms encroaches on a domain of activity (creation) that has traditionally been considered to be a divine prerogative. Overall, our findings suggest that value predispositions can influence public attitudes towards synthetic biology even when individuals engage in explicit deliberation about the technology in question.

Drake, F. (2006). "Mobile phone masts: protesting the scientific evidence." Public Understanding of Science 15(4): 387-410.	In the UK mobile phone ownership is high, however, there are conspicuous local protests against mobile phone masts. Protesters' concerns often focus on the claimed ill health effects of mobile phone technology, which are frequently dismissed by industry and scientific experts. This paper provides an in-depth study into the attitudes and beliefs of one local protest. It considers to what extent health issues dominate the group's concerns and how the campaigners have engaged with scientific knowledge to form their opinion. Surprisingly, mobile phone ownership was high within the protest group. This apparent paradox could be rationalized, however, by considering the location of the group and the ways in which the protesters used their mobile phone. Few believed that the precautionary approach had been fully applied to mobile phones. The campaign can be interpreted as one that questions the presumption that science and technology lead to increased economic performance and quality of life.

Drake, F., et al. (2001). "Business appreciation of global atmospheric change: the United Kingdom refrigeration industry." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 187-211.	From the perspective of an external observer there appears to be good reason for business managers in industries affected by global atmospheric change to engage with the science that underpins the issues of stratospheric ozone depletion and global warming. In part, this reflects the potential competitive advantages that follow from keeping abreast of emergent environmental concerns that might require change in an industry's products or processes. Scientific understanding has long been seen as positively linked to economic performance. Increasingly, however, more specific environmental knowledge is argued to make good business sense. Indeed, the Ecological Modernization Theory presents the environmental challenge facing business as a major stimulus to innovation and future profitability. There are now many case studies-frequently involving large corporations-and extensive surveys that claim to provide evidence of a strengthening and mutually beneficial partnership between economic and environmental interests. Yet there are far fewer studies that offer a detailed exploration of the ways in which individual business managers and decision-makers view the environment. And we know little about the role that science and scientific uncertainty play in business life and the assessment of environmental issues.
This paper is part of a growing effort to create a more empirically grounded understanding of business and the environment. It draws upon semi-structured interviews with managers in the United Kingdom refrigeration industry, a sector particularly affected in recent years by concerns about global atmospheric change. An initial reflection upon the impact that ozone depletion and global warming have had on the refrigeration industry is followed by consideration of interviewees' understanding of emergent environmental concerns and the role that science has played in informing their opinions. This reveals that neither science nor the environment per se play a central role in business planning. Where scientific arguments or environmental evidence are used they are often only selectively quoted in ways that bolster established commercial needs. The way in which science is used may explain the apparent lack of any impulse towards ecological modernization in the sectors of the refrigeration industry explored here. It is also evident, however, that companies' relationships with customers and suppliers also shape a somewhat passive response to environmental and technical challenges. By contrast, environmental legislation appears to be a major motivating force. Legislation not only enforces, but also legitimates, attention to specific environmental issues. At the same time, however, this regulatory certainty forecloses scientific discussion. Where clear legislation does not exist-as is the case with global warming-interviewees saw its introduction as a more effective route to reducing uncertainty than any societal investment in scientific research or environmental action. While legislation has established standards that promote specific instances of environmental good practice, there is little evidence of the creation of any wider momentum for organizational change. Thus, additional industrial response to environmental concerns may require continued extension and refinement of the regulatory framework.

Drake, P. (2018). "Indonesia's Accidental Island: Composing the Environment in the Echo of Disaster." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 261-273.	By presenting stakeholders' competing representations of an extraordinary geological formation, an island with a surface that is comprised of runoff from an infamous mud volcano in East Java, this article explores the communicative openings and closures that arise during an environmental disaster. A particular concern is attuning communicative practices to the diverse human and nonhuman actors that not only produce disasters but also shape our understandings and responses to disasters. Drawing on the work of Bruno Latour, this article suggests that non-anthropocentric modes of inquiry present new communicative and political possibilities for pursuing both social justice and safe environments. While this article focuses on a specific set of incidents in Indonesia, this project develops tools and perspectives that can be applied to environmental conflicts at other places.

Drake, P. and A. Smith (2016). "Belligerent broadcasting, male anti-authoritarianism and anti-environmentalism: the case of Top Gear (BBC, 2002-2015)." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 689-703.	This article considers the format and cultural politics of the hugely successful UK television program Top Gear (BBC 2002-2015). It analyzes how-through its presenting team-it constructed an informal address predicated around anti-authoritarian or contrarian banter and protest masculinity. Regular targets for Top Gear presenter's protest-curtailed by broadcast guidelines in terms of gender and ethnicity-are deflected onto the "soft"targets of government legislation on environmental issues or various forms of regulation "red tape. Repeated references to speed cameras, central London congestion charges and "excessive"signage are all anti-authoritarian, libertarian discourses delivered through a comedic form of performance address. Thus, the BBC's primary response to complaints made about this program was to defend the program's political views as being part of the humor. The article draws on critical discourse analysis and conversation analysis to consider how the program licensed a particular form of engagement that helped it to deflect criticisms, and considers the limits to such discursive positioning. We conclude by examining the controversies that finally led, in 2015, to the removal of the main presenter, Jeremy Clarkson, and the ending of this version of the program through the departure of the team to an on-demand online television service.

Dreher, T. and M. Voyer (2015). "Climate Refugees or Migrants? Contesting Media Frames on Climate Justice in the Pacific." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(1): 58-76.	Climate justice is rarely encountered in Australian media coverage of issues around climate change. The rare coverage of climate justice issues often focuses on Small Island Developing States (SIDS) such as Kiribati and commonly makes use of four main media frames: SIDS as "proof" of climate change, SIDS as "victims" of climate change, SIDS communities as climate "refugees," and SIDS as travel destinations. Yet these frames undermine the desire of SIDS communities to be seen as proactive, self-determining, and active agents of change. This paper explores the way in which Pacific Islanders view the existing media coverage of their concerns over climate change and how they would prefer the media to tell their stories. Through an action research collaboration with a climate change non-governmental organization working in Kiribati and Australia, participants proposed alternative frames for climate justice media, including frames of human rights, active change agents, and migration with dignity.

Drew, C. H., et al. (2004). "Promoting transparency of long-term environmental decisions: The Hanford decision mapping system pilot project." Risk Analysis 24(6): 1641-1664.	Nuclear waste cleanup is a challenging and complex problem that requires both scientific analysis and dialogue among a variety of stakeholders. This article describes an effort to develop an online information system that supports this analytic-deliberative dialogue by integrating cleanup information for the Hanford Site, and making it more "transparent." A framework for understanding and evaluating transparency guided system development. Working directly with stakeholders, we identified information needs and developed new ways to organize and present the information so that it would be more transparent to interested parties, with the ultimate aim of fostering greater participation in decision dialogues and processes. The complexity of the information needed for dialogue suggested that several types of communication devices ("information structures") were warranted. Five information structures were developed for the pilot Decision Mapping System (http://nalu.geog.washington.edu/dms). Decision maps hyperlinked decision information to maps of Hanford. Background Information provided context in a narrative format. Decision Paths organized decision process information on a timeline and provided direct hyperlinks to online documentation. The Geographic Library hyperlinked decision documents to maps. Finally, a Discussion Forum allowed users to make comments and view remarks from others. Early lessons from this work suggest that transparency is integral to long-term management, a participatory design process contributed greatly to its perceived success, and better data integration to support decision making is needed. This work has broad implications for risk communicators and risk managers because it speaks to the design of information systems to support "analytic-deliberative" decision processes (i.e., those that rely upon both risk science and public dialogue).

Drews, S. and G. Reese (2018). ""Degrowth" vs. Other Types of Growth: Labeling Affects Emotions but Not Attitudes." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(6): 763-772.	Questioning the compatibility of economic growth and environmental sustainability, some scholars and activists call for a degrowth strategy. This idea presents an attack on the economic growth paradigm, and it has thus raised considerable attention. Yet, although many agree with questioning economic growth, a debate continues as to whether the term degrowth is (dis)advantageous in wider public communications. This debate, however, lacks empirical evidence. Here, we present two studies on how degrowth is perceived compared to other relevant terms. In Study 1, we show that degrowth elicits more negative affective and emotional reactions compared to post-growth and prosperity without growth. In Study 2, we find that the effects of labeling on attitudes and voting intentions toward a sustainable economy are relatively small. These initial results suggest that degrowth may evoke somewhat more negative emotional reactions than similar terms, but this may not have significant consequences. We discuss the results and draw implications for communication and further research.

Driedger, S. M. (2008). "Creating shared realities through communication: exploring the agenda-building role of the media and its sources in the E-coli contamination of a Canadian public drinking water supply." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 23-40.	The media's role as an agenda-setter has been documented in the literature, however less attention has been given to the role of the media as an agenda-builder. The role of news agencies in constructing and shaping news stories serve to mediate risk messages to the public by virtue of what elements of a story they report, the types of sources they use in reporting the different 'sides', and how they package a story. The media are not the only ones who seek to set and build agendas. The sources, upon which the news media rely, can and do similarly engage in agenda-building activities. They do so by appropriating the very 'media-ted' process to use the mass media as a delivery vehicle for their own communication claims through their own packaged 'take' on the story. Drawing on a national print and televised media analysis of the Walkerton, Ontario, Canada drinking water contamination event, this study explores the agenda-building role of the media and of Walkerton residents and citizen group members (Concerned Walkerton Citizens) quoted in media stories. The implications of this for risk communication will be discussed.

Driedger, S. M., et al. (2018). "Contesting Medical Miracles: A Collective Action Framing Analysis of CCSVI and Venous Angioplasty ("Liberation Therapy") for People With Multiple Sclerosis in News and Social Media." Science Communication 40(4): 469-498.	This study examines how a medically contested procedure for people living with multiple sclerosis was framed by the news media and challenged by user-generated Facebook content. While expected narrative patterns ensued (advocates being positive and the scientific community being cautious), embedded were collective action oppositional frames that forced shifts in scientific and policy decisions that defied standard evidentiary support in Canada. Medical experts and researchers need to engage in more effective science communication about the nature of the research process and engage affected health communities more in the research agenda, particularly for conditions characterized by considerable unmet need.

Drumm, I. A., et al. (2015). "The Aeolus project: Science outreach through art." Public Understanding of Science 24(3): 375-385.	With a general decline in people's choosing to pursue science and engineering degrees there has never been a greater need to raise the awareness of lesser known fields such as acoustics. Given this context, a large-scale public engagement project, the Aeolus project', was created to raise awareness of acoustics science through a major collaboration between an acclaimed artist and acoustics researchers. It centred on touring the large singing sculpture Aeolus during 2011/12, though the project also included an extensive outreach programme of talks, exhibitions, community workshops and resources for schools. Described here are the motivations behind the project and the artwork itself, the ways in which scientists and an artist collaborated, and the public engagement activities designed as part of the project. Evaluation results suggest that the project achieved its goal of inspiring interest in the discipline of acoustics through the exploration of an otherworldly work of art.

Druschke, C. G. (2013). "Watershed as Common-Place: Communicating for Conservation at the Watershed Scale." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(1): 80-96.	This article, highlighting qualitative data collected from farmers and landowners in the Clear Creek watershed in eastern Iowa, offers a situated analysis of the relationship between rhetorical change and landscape change. After chronicling the rise of government-sponsored watershed-based agricultural conservation efforts, I adopt Kenneth Burke's framing of rhetoric as identification to argue that the watershed, as it is mobilized in contemporary conservation efforts, serves as a potent material and symbolic site for identification. Focusing on my ethnographic research in the Clear Creek watershed in eastern Iowa, I consider how farmers' and landowners' identification with the watershed has prompted changes to the landscape for the sake of soil and water conservation. I then consider the implications of this argument for extending theories of the rhetorical landscape, suggesting that rhetorical landscapes contain elements of both the symbolic and the material.

Dudo, A. (2013). "Toward a Model of Scientists' Public Communication Activity: The Case of Biomedical Researchers." Science Communication 35(4): 476-501.	This study aims to contribute to our empirical understanding of the factors and processes that lead scientists to engage in public communication. Using a national sample, this study identifies key factors that contribute to scientists' public communication activity, including a scientist's status, communication autonomy, use of print and online media, intrinsic rewards, communication training, perceived behavioral controls, normative beliefs, and perceived level of medialization. In addition to these findings, this study aims to extend our understanding of the popularization process by injecting theoretical rationale, accounting for indirect pathways of influence, and proposing a baseline model that can be refined over time.

Dudo, A., et al. (2014). "Portrayals of Technoscience in Video Games: A Potential Avenue for Informal Science Learning." Science Communication 36(2): 219-247.	Given the proliferation of video games and their potential to contribute to informal science learning and perception formation, we provide an assessment of how commercial video games portray technoscience. Our examination was guided by theories commonly applied in studies of entertainment media's contributions to public understanding of science. Results indicate that technoscience and its practitioners are common fixtures within video games and that their presence is often conspicuous and enthusiastic. Our findings challenge common assumptions about the treatment of science in media and compel research examining the role of informal gaming in cultivating future generations of scientists.

Dudo, A. D., et al. (2007). "Reporting a potential pandemic - A risk-related assessment of avian influenza coverage in US newspapers." Science Communication 28(4): 429-454.	While quality mediated information does not guarantee accurate public risk perceptions, it provides the public with the means to construct informed risk assessments. This study analyzed four major U.S. newspapers to assess the quality of coverage related to risks posed by avian flu. "Quality of coverage" was examined with a five-dimension conceptualization that included measures of risk magnitude, self-efficacy, risk comparisons, sensationalism, and thematic and episodic framing. Findings revealed that coverage was dominated by episodic frames, exhibited high sensationalism, and contained minimal information promoting self-efficacy. Conversely, coverage exhibited high quality in terms of risk magnitude and risk comparison information.

Dumas-Mallet, E., et al. (2018). "Scientific Uncertainty in the Press: How Newspapers Describe Initial Biomedical Findings." Science Communication 40(1): 124-141.	Newspapers preferentially cover initial biomedical findings although they are often disconfirmed by subsequent studies. We analyzed 426 newspaper articles covering 40 initial biomedical studies associating a risk factor with 12 pathologies and published between 1988 and 2009. Most articles presented the study as initial but only 21% mentioned that it must be confirmed by replication. Headlines of articles with a replication statement were hyped less often than those without. Replication statements have tended to disappear after 2000, whereas hyped headlines have become more frequent. Thus, the public is increasingly poorly informed about the uncertainty inherent in initial biomedical findings.

Dumlao, R. and S. Duke (2003). "The Web and e-mail in science communication." Science Communication 24(3): 283-308.	Using open-ended interviews, researchers identified twelve themes concerning Web and e-mail use by science writers. The Web and e-mail "speed information" between sources, reporters, editors, and audiences. "Skepticism" about information quality leads science writers to urge practices of "good judgment" by Web users. A diagram illustrates ways "speeds information" is changing journalistic work. Suggestions concerning future research on diffusion of information are offered.

Duncan, P. (2004). "Dispute, dissent and the place of health promotion in a "disrupted tradition" of health improvement." Public Understanding of Science 13(2): 177-190.	Dispute over the nature and purpose of health promotion has characterized the development of this field of activity in recent times. This paper explores such disputes and offers an explanation for them. I argue that health promotion and related fields (such as public health and health education) share in a "disrupted tradition." I assert that "health promotion" can be seen as the term presently favored by some to represent an extensive "tradition of protecting and improving the health of the public." Its relative favor and currency can be ascribed to a degree of power shift between competing groups operating with separate conceptions of health, away from biomedicine and towards more socially rooted understanding. Relative degrees of power and influence possessed by these groups at different historical times have contributed to the "disruption" of the tradition. Understanding this disruption helps explain a number of historiographical and theoretical problems besetting the field.

Duncan, S. L. (2006). "Mapping whose reality? Geographic information systems (GIS) and "wild science"." Public Understanding of Science 15(4): 411-434.	In taking the landscape-scale view increasingly demanded of natural resource management, scientific assessments make considerable use of geographic information systems (GIS) maps to convey the research findings they develop. Public interaction with scientists over natural resource management issues is therefore frequently mediated by such maps, which can directly influence how the landscape is viewed, and how science findings are communicated and understood. Analysis of the Coastal Landscape Analysis and Modeling Study (CLAMS) project in western Oregon reveals that GIS maps play a significant role in how we frame and address natural resource management issues. They can support the role of privileged knowledge as held by the map makers, typically scientists, and may reinforce it by the de facto "map tyranny" that gives primacy to scientific worldviews. But they can also enable broader kinds of inquiry through multiple frames of reference, enhancing story-making opportunities for stakeholders. Which of these trajectories is followed is affected by resource availability and new perceptions of responsibility, each of which reflects social power structures. The CLAMS case study suggests that map user/non-scientists appear less likely to be victims of "map tyranny" the more familiar they are with the technology. Accordingly, they become more likely to push for usable results from it, and more confident about engaging their own knowledge with that of the map maker/scientists.

Dunwoody, S. (2001). "Studying users of the why files." Science Communication 22(3): 274-282.	Science Web sites proliferate, offering users a virtual avalanche of information that ranges widely across topic, message style, and quality of evidence. Users, too, are proliferating. But what kind of people visit these sites, how do they maneuver through the site once they arrive, and do they learn anything about science as a result of their visits? For the past five years, a team of researchers has been trying to answer these question by focusing on one science Web site, the Why Files (http://whyfiles.news.wisc.edu). Originally created as part of the National Institute for Science Education at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, the site has won industry kudos for its efforts to offer users "the science behind the news". Most importantly for this discussion, it has also served as a laboratory for examining the characteristics of Why Files users, for tracking their coping strategies on the site itself, and for experiments to assess science learning. This discussion will offer some of the results of that research.

Dunwoody, S. (2007). "The tolerability of risk: A new framework for risk management." Science Communication 29(2): 271-273.
	
Dunwoody, S. (2007). "Trust in cooperative risk management: Uncertainty and scepticism in the public mind." Science Communication 29(2): 271-273.
	
Dunwoody, S. (2007). "Science magazine's State of the Planet 2006-2007." Science Communication 28(4): 522-523.
	
Dunwoody, S. and R. J. Griffin (2013). "Statistical Reasoning in Journalism Education." Science Communication 35(4): 528-538.	Surveys of journalism department heads in 1997 and 2008 showed general support for the need for journalism students to reason with statistical information. Stronger support was associated, in particular, with the perception that this cognitive skill would give students an advantage in the journalism job market. However, many chairs also perceived constraints to learning, such as student inability and/or unwillingness to focus on this material and the difficulty most of their faculty would have teaching it. Some of these concerns may be more perceptual than actual.

Dunwoody, S. and P. A. Kohl (2017). "Using Weight-of-Experts Messaging to Communicate Accurately About Contested Science." Science Communication 39(3): 338-357.	Research indicates that balanced news coverage of opposing scientific claims can result in heightened uncertainty among audiences about what is true. In this study, we test the ability of a weight-of-experts statement to enhance individuals' ability to distinguish between more versus less valid claims. An experiment found that the weight-of-experts narrative led participants to greater certainty about what scientists judged to be true, which made participants more likely to buy in to that judgment themselves.

Duque, R. B., et al. (2012). "Is Internet Use Associated With Reporting Fewer Problems in Collaboration?: Evidence From the Scientific Community in Chile." Science Communication 34(5): 642-678.	In the developing world, many advocate the benefits of collaboration as the primary driver of research productivity. One of the crucial conditions that support, and help overcome problems in, distributed work is consistent access and use of Internet technologies. But it is argued that the collaborative benefits of Internet technologies are not symmetrically distributed worldwide, perhaps a result of neo-dependency relationships between the South and the North. To evaluate this, in this article, the authors consider the association between "e-mail use and diversity," "reported problems in web surfing," and "problems in research collaboration" for a population of scientists outside the mainstream, in the South American nation of Chile. They surveyed 337 scientists over three regions asking them to report on their collaborative behavior, Internet use, and research challenges. While they find that Chileans on the whole report fewer problems compared with other less developed nations studied in this way, they do report problems when reporting more collaborators and when their professional network is geographically heterogeneous. E-mail use, though, has no association with less frequent reports of research challenges, while reporting that "the Internet has made them more connected" and reporting (more intensely) "problems encountered while surfing the web" are significantly associated with reporting more problems in research, when controlling for background, professional activities, institutional and field context, and the number and location of collaborators.

Durant, D. (2008). "Accounting for expertise: Wynne and the autonomy of the lay public actor." Public Understanding of Science 17(1): 5-20.	This paper argues that the public understanding of science has eliminated the understanding gap between experts and the public, but erected an ontological gap in its place. Experts are conceived of as unreflexive, but lay public actors as reflexive. To provide a concrete grounding for this claim, this paper offers a conceptual analysis of Brian Wynne's work on the public understanding of science. Wynne's work intersects theorizing about late modernity ( explored via a comparison with Beck's and Giddens') and debates about the role of experts and the public in decision-making (explored via a comparison to Collins and Evans). I show that Wynne's work, as with Beck's and Giddens', and Collins and Evans', embodies different conceptions of lay actors. In Wynne's work ambivalence arises concerning whether social identities or social relationships ground the theoretical account. I suggest the tension arises because of the general desire of the social science analyst to preserve the autonomy of the lay actor.

Durant, J. (1997). "Untitled." Public Understanding of Science 6(4): U8-U11.
	
Durant, J. (2002). "In memory of Stephen Jay Gould." Public Understanding of Science 11(4): 389-392.
	
Durfee, J. L. (2006). ""Social change" and "Status quo" framing effects on risk perception - An exploratory experiment." Science Communication 27(4): 459-495.	Operating from a guard-dog perspective of the media, this study investigates whether "social change" or "status quo" news frames affected individuals' risk perceptions, using an experimental design. Participants who read a news story that used the social change frame reported the highest level of risk awareness (F = 34.88, p =.00), indicating that the way the media frame a story about environmental issues has the potential to influence the audience's perception of risk.

Durodie, B. (2011). "H1N1-the social costs of elite confusion." Journal of Risk Research 14(5): 511-518.	In May 2011, the World Health Assembly will receive the report of its International Health Regulations Review Committee examining responses to the outbreak of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic influenza and identifying lessons to be learnt. This will emphasise the need for better risk communication in future. But risk and communication are not objective facts; they are socially mediated cultural products. Responses to crises are not only simply determined by the situation at hand, but also through mental models developed over protracted periods. Accordingly, those responsible for advocating the precautionary approach and encouraging the securitisation of health, that both helped encourage a catastrophist outlook in this instance, are unlikely to be held to account. These elite confusions have come at an enormous cost to society.

Dutfield, G. (2000). "The public and private domains - Intellectual property rights in traditional knowledge." Science Communication 21(3): 274-295.	This article argues that intellectual property law contains an in-built bias that protects the intangible assets of companies while failing to recognize traditional knowledge as protectable subject matter. The rapid globalization of high-level intellectual property rights (IPRs) minimum standards is certain to exacerbate the situation. The main reason why IPRs are unfair is not that they are explicitly discriminatory but that they treat all knowledge in the world as the intellectual commons except that which is protected under patent or other mainstream IPRs. This situation is unjust to indigenous people and contrary to the interests of everybody except those who profit from exploiting traditional knowledge unfairly.

Dutt, B. and K. C. Garg (2000). "An overview of science and technology coverage in Indian English-language dailies." Public Understanding of Science 9(2): 123-140.	News items on science and technology in English-language newspapers published in different parts of India during January-December 1996 were analyzed. Results indicate that the greatest proportion of newspaper space was devoted to nuclear science and technology, followed by defense, space research, and astronomy. The Pioneer, The Hindu, and The Times of India were the newspapers that together devoted about 23 percent of the total space to items on science and technology. The sources for most of the articles (97 percent) on policy issues originated from within India, while for other stories foreign sources, including those from the United States and the United Kingdom, also contributed. Many of the items were supported by illustrations such as photographs and diagrams. The study indicates that, on average, Indian newspapers devoted far less than one percent of the total printed space to articles and stories related to science and technology.

Earle, T. C. (2010). "Trust in Risk Management: A Model-Based Review of Empirical Research." Risk Analysis 30(4): 541-574.	This review of studies of trust in risk management was designed, in part, to examine the relations between the reviewed research and the consensus model of trust that has recently emerged in other fields of study. The review begins by briefly elaborating the consensus views on the dimensionality and function of trust. It then describes the various models of trust that have been developed in the field of risk management, comparing them with the consensus approach. The findings of previous reviews are outlined, followed by a delineation of the open questions addressed by the present review, the method used, and the results. Finally, the findings of the review are discussed in relation to the important issue of trust asymmetry, the role of trust in risk management, and directions for future research. The consensus model specifies two conceptualizations of trust, each linked to particular types of antecedents. Relational trust, which is called trust in this review, is based on the relations between the trusting person and the other. Calculative trust, which is called confidence, is based on past behavior of the other and/or on constraints on future behavior. Results of this review showed that most studies of trust in risk management, while exploring matters of particular concern to the risk management community, were at least in part consistent with the consensus model. The review concludes by urging greater integration between the concerns of the former and the insights of the latter.

Ebeling, M. F. E. (2008). "Mediating uncertainty - Communicating the financial risks of nanotechnologies." Science Communication 29(3): 335-361.	The commercialization of nanotechnologies and the rapid development of hyperbole around their commercialization can provide a fertile field for research into how the potentials and expectations of an emerging technology are communicated to investors. As the commercialization of nanotechnologies intensifies, this area will grow in significance. This article explores how the financial potentials of nanotechnologies and the promise of high returns for investors are constructed by marketing professionals and mediated through financial media. Attention is focused on how the immense uncertainties that surround nanotech as a commercialized field are managed by scientists, marketers, public relations professionals, and journalists and on the communication strategies used to take advantage of the ambiguities of nanotech in order to translate the technologies into a profitable industry.

Ebi, K. L. (2007). "Towards an early warning system for heat events." Journal of Risk Research 10(5): 729-744.	Severe and sustained episodes of hot weather during the summer season are associated with marked short-term increases in morbidity and mortality in the United States and Europe. The death toll in an unprepared region can be substantial, as was evidenced in the 2003 heat event in Western Europe. There is growing interest in developing early warning systems to advise the public when weather conditions pose risks to health. These systems link meteorological forecasts of dangerous weather with public health actions. The principal components of an early warning system include identification and forecasting of the event (including consistent, standardised weather criteria for when warnings are activated and deactivated), prediction of possible health outcomes that could occur, an effective and timely response plan that targets high-risk populations, and an ongoing evaluation and revision of the system and its components. A particular challenge is the development of effective communication of the behavioural changes needed to prevent adverse health impacts.

Ede, S. (2002). "Science and the contemporary visual arts." Public Understanding of Science 11(1): 65-78.	Scientists and artists increasingly engage each other's work. This paper provides an initial analysis of that engagement. highlighting the challenge of materials, the fascination of scientific paradigms, the artist's ability to assist with scientific investigation, and the need to explore the political and ethical consequences of science.

Ede, S. (2004). "Envisioning science: The design and craft of the science image." Public Understanding of Science 13(1): 97-98.
	
Eden, S. (2001). "Playing safe: Science and the environment." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 250-251.
	
Eden, S. (2011). "Food labels as boundary objects: How consumers make sense of organic and functional foods." Public Understanding of Science 20(2): 179-194.	This paper considers how consumers make sense of food labeling, drawing on a qualitative, empirical study in England. I look in detail at two examples of labeling: 1) food certified as produced by organic methods and 2) functional food claimed to be beneficial for human health, especially probiotic and cholesterol-lowering products. I use the concept of "boundary objects" to demonstrate how such labels are intended to work between the worlds of food producers and food consumers and to show how information is not merely transferred as a "knowledge fix" to consumer ignorance. Rather, consumers drew on a binary of "raw" and "processed" food and familiarity with marketing in today's consumer culture to make sense of such labeling.

Edford, R. (2007). "The elegance of The Elegant Universe: unity, beauty, and harmony in Brian Greene's popularization of superstring theory." Public Understanding of Science 16(4): 441-454.	The emergence of string theory into popular culture can be seen in recent episodes of Joan of Arcadia and in the NOVA series based on Brian Greene's best-selling book, The Elegant Universe. Greene's book has played a significant role in string theory's emergence into popular culture. In order to persuade the general public to accept the new and controversial theory of superstrings as a revolutionary scientific theory, Greene carefully constructs his argument in The Elegant Universe, reinforcing the elegance and beauty of string theory. The Elegant Universe itself is an elegantly constructed argument, in terms of both its overall structure and its language. The threads of Greene's argument are carefully woven to create the unified textual fabric of his argument.

Edmond, G. (1998). "Down by Science: Context and commitment in the lay response to incriminating scientific evidence during a murder trial." Public Understanding of Science 7(2): 83-111.	This paper explores responses to scientific evidence from a lay person accused of murder. These responses are examined with reference to the specific (here legal) contexts in which they were offered. This paper will provide some analysis of the motivations or goals behind some particular lay understandings of scientific evidence, and the function which representations of these understandings were designed to fulfill as the accused attempted to prove her innocence. The specific contexts will be seen to influence the shaping and configuring of scientific knowledge as well as the manner in which various audiences attend to that knowledge and its perceived implications. The discussion win also raise the appropriateness of maintaining a rigid dichotomy between lay and expert knowledges. In conclusion I will emphasize the importance of a more symmetrical and sociologically-informed analysis of both expert and lay approaches to scientific knowledge.

Edmond, G. and D. Mercer (1997). "Scientific literacy and the jury: reconsidering jury 'competence'." Public Understanding of Science 6(4): 329-357.	This article explores contemporary debates about the competence of juries to assess scientific and technical evidence. Most existing approaches measure jury competence against an unproblematized Yardstick of the correct scientific understanding'. We will develop an alternative, more sociologically and epistemologically nuanced view of the jury comprehension of science which significantly reframes these issues for both proponents and opponents of the jury. In particular, by using examples surrounding the recent US litigation involving birth defects allegedly caused by use of the drug Bendectin, we will challenge the common claim that inconsistencies in jury findings provide support for restricting the role of the jury in matters involving science and technology based on alleged jury 'incompetence'. We conclude by noting that jury competence is a politically charged ascription.

Edmond, G. and D. Mercer (1998). "Representing the sociology of scientific knowledge and law." Science Communication 19(4): 307-327.	The sociology of scientific knowledge (SSK) has become widely cited in policy contexts including discussion of law, science, and society. The following article provides a textual examination of how some of the work of eminent SSK and law scholar Sheila Jasanoff has been received in U.S. legal scholarship. Focusing on debate sparked by the 1993 Supreme Court case of Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the authors argue that textual evidence suggests a resistance within U.S. legal scholarship to the incorporation of the more radical implications of SSK perspectives.

Edmond, G. and D. Mercer (1999). "Creating (public) science in the Noah's Ark case." Public Understanding of Science 8(4): 317-343.	This paper explores how a recent "Creation Science" case from the Australian Federal Courts was used by an informal alliance of science popularizers (science litigant Ian Plimer, science journalists, and the Australian Skeptics) as a vehicle for the celebratory "boundary working" of "public science," despite the case's contingent and messy processes and unfavorable legal outcome. This "boundary working" was pursued mainly through the mass media, in which a narrow range of narrative strategies involving well-worn metaphors and cliches conforming to the ideology of science dominated the case's coverage. The dominance of these narratives resulted in a marginalized coverage of the legal/policy ramifications of the case, particularly the role of the courts in preserving/limiting freedom of speech. We will conclude our analysis by identifying some similarities between the Ark case and the Science Wars, noting that both instances show how the "boundary working" of "public science" can be pursued in a cultural space located at a significant distance from contexts where more tangible science policies are being negotiated.

Edwards, C. (2004). "Evaluating European public awareness of science initiatives - A review of the literature." Science Communication 25(3): 260-271.	There are many public-awareness-of-science initiatives (PASIs), representing a major investment of resources. This review will consider how far these initiatives have succeeded. How much evaluation is taking place, and what patterns of success does it reveal? Work with the European Network of Science Communication Teachers (ENSCOT) enabled a review of reports for initiatives in European Union countries. Initial findings are that many PASIs are not formally written up and fewer are evaluated against their aims. The evidence also suggests differences between countries. This review considers how evaluation could improve future initiatives in Europe and beyond.

Edwards, J. A., et al. (2012). "Decision Making for Risk Management: A Comparison of Graphical Methods for Presenting Quantitative Uncertainty." Risk Analysis 32(12): 2055-2070.	Previous research has shown that people err when making decisions aided by probability information. Surprisingly, there has been little exploration into the accuracy of decisions made based on many commonly used probabilistic display methods. Two experiments examined the ability of a comprehensive set of such methods to effectively communicate critical information to a decision maker and influence confidence in decision making. The second experiment investigated the performance of these methods under time pressure, a situational factor known to exacerbate judgmental errors. Ten commonly used graphical display methods were randomly assigned to participants. Across eight scenarios in which a probabilistic outcome was described, participants were asked questions regarding graph interpretation (e.g., mean) and made behavioral choices (i.e., act; do not act) based on the provided information indicated that decision-maker accuracy differed by graphical method; error bars and boxplots led to greatest mean estimation and behavioral choice accuracy whereas complementary cumulative probability distribution functions were associated with the highest probability estimation accuracy. Under time pressure, participant performance decreased when making behavioral choices.

Edwards, M. L. (2016). "A sociohistorical examination of George Herbert Mead's approach to science education." Public Understanding of Science 25(5): 531-542.	Although George Herbert Mead is widely known for his social psychological work, his views on science education also represent a significant, yet sometimes overlooked contribution. In a speech delivered in March 1906 entitled The Teaching of Science in College, Mead calls for cultural courses on the sciences, such as sociology of science or history of science courses, to increase the relevancy of natural and physical science courses for high school and university students. These views reflect Mead's perspective on a number of traditional dualisms, including objectivity versus subjectivity and the social sciences versus natural and physical sciences. Taking a sociohistorical outlook, I identify the context behind Mead's approach to science education, which includes three major influences: (1) German intellectual thought and the Methodenstreit debate, (2) pragmatism and Darwin's theory of evolution, and (3) social reform efforts in Chicago and the General Science Movement.

Eghigian, G. (2017). "Making UFOs make sense: Ufology, science, and the history of their mutual mistrust." Public Understanding of Science 26(5): 612-626.	Reports of unidentified flying objects and alien encounters have sparked amateur research (ufology), government investigations, and popular interest in the subject. Historically, however, scientists have generally greeted the topic with skepticism, most often dismissing ufology as pseudoscience and believers in unidentified flying objects and aliens as irrational or abnormal. Believers, in turn, have expressed doubts about the accuracy of academic science. This study examines the historical sources of the mutual mistrust between ufologists and scientists. It demonstrates that any science doubt surrounding unidentified flying objects and aliens was not primarily due to the ignorance of ufologists about science, but rather a product of the respective research practices of and relations between ufology, the sciences, and government investigative bodies.

Einsiedel, E. (2007). "Of publics and science." Public Understanding of Science 16(1): 5-6.
	
Einsiedel, E. F. (2002). "GM food labeling - The interplay of information, social values, and institutional trust." Science Communication 24(2): 209-221.	The battle over genetically modified foods is one reflecting ongoing battles over controversial science, and the labeling of these foods is one arena in which these controversies are played out. This article argues that labeling represents attempts to balance consumers' rights to information, their desires for foods with preferred qualities, industry interests in beneficial production arrangements as well as matching market preferences, regulatory interests in consumer protection, and interests of the state in promoting innovation. On another level, labeling, like many other science controversies, represents the social dimensions within which technology is embedded. It is symbolic of public confidence and trust in institutions and is reflective of the social values consumers may bring to bear in their conceptions of a technology.

Einsiedel, E. F. (2002). "Assessing a controversial medical technology: Canadian public consultations on xenotransplantation." Public Understanding of Science 11(4): 315-331.	A policy question was posed in 2001. to Canadian publics: should Canada proceed with clinical trials on xenotransplantation and if so, under what conditions? As part of its development of policy and regulations on this medical technology, Health Canada and the Canadian Public Health Association implemented a public consultation process that included a public opinion survey and deliberative citizen fora modeled along the citizens' jury. This study focuses on the citizen fora and describes an assessment of effectiveness based on an evaluation framework developed on the basis of concepts from constructive technology assessment and deliberative democracy.

Einsiedel, E. F. (2004). "Untitled." Public Understanding of Science 13(1): 5-6.
	
Einsiedel, E. F. and D. L. Eastlick (2000). "Consensus conferences as deliberative democracy - A communications perspective." Science Communication 21(4): 323-343.	Consensus conferences involve a small group of citizens who go through a learning process on a given technological issue, engage experts, and develop an assessment of the key issues they identify as critical. These models of technology assessment, intended to make the process more democratic, have increasingly been used in Europe. This study examines the first application in Canada on the issue of food biotechnology. It examines the consensus conference as a model of public deliberation with specific attention to communication processes.

Einsiedel, E. F., et al. (2001). "Publics at the technology table: the consensus conference in Denmark, Canada, and Australia." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 83-98.	One model for direct citizen participation in science-based policy issues is the consensus conference. This article presents a cross-national comparative analysis of three consensus conferences on food biotechnology tin Denmark, Canada, and Australia) held in March 1999. We conclude that the consensus conference model "travels well" (works in multiple national and socio-cultural contexts), being useful beyond its origins in northern Europe. We also provide more detailed conclusions about the food biotechnology issue.

Einsiedel, E. F., et al. (2017). "The Representation of Biofuels in Political Cartoons: Ironies, Contradictions and Moral Dilemmas." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(1): 41-62.	Biofuels are an important component in the suite of renewable energy alternatives but their development trajectory has been fraught with controversy. This study investigated the representation of biofuels in political cartoons on the Internet. Political cartoons have relied on informative, persuasive, and performative attributes to engender critical reflection and mobilize action. We analyzed a corpus of 130 relevant cartoons obtained through Google Images which were then thematically categorized. The problems highlighted in these cartoons focused on the social injustices arising from the diversion of food sources to fuel, the environmental destruction arising from deforestation, the unfulfilled expectations for climate change mitigation, and the policy contradictions that emerged. We suggest that political cartoons' discursive dimensions allow us to make immediate connections between the image and our cultural stores of meaning, while at the same time further elucidate the dilemmas and contradictions embedded in the public's interface with biofuels as an environmental issue.

Eitzinger, C. and P. M. Wiedemann (2008). "Trust in the safety of tourist destinations: Hard to gain, easy to lose? New insights on the asymmetry principle." Risk Analysis 28(4): 843-853.	According to the asymmetry principle of trust, negative events decrease trust to a much higher extent than positive events increase trust. The study at hand intended to verify whether this notion of asymmetry holds true with respect to trust in the safety of tourist destinations. Thus, in contrast to previous research that analyzed trust asymmetry in the context of involuntary technological risks, the present study evaluates the validity of the asymmetry principle of trust in the context of voluntary tourism risks. The hypothesis that negative or risky information on destination safety (absence of proper safety measures and conditions) has a higher impact on distrust than, conversely, positive or nonrisk information on destination safety (provision of proper safety measures and conditions) has on trust was tested in an online survey (N = 640). In contrast to the asymmetry pattern found by Slovic (1993), results of the current work suggest symmetry rather than asymmetry of trust. The presence of proper safety measures and conditions (positive or nonrisk information) was found to have at least the same-and in some cases an even higher-impact on trust than the absence of such measures and conditions (negative or risky information) had on distrust. Findings provide empirical evidence for the thesis that the prevalence of trust asymmetry is dependent on the risk source and demonstrate that trust is symmetric rather than asymmetric in the context of voluntary tourism risks. Furthermore, results imply an influence of positive versus negative expectations as well as of prior trusting relationships on the occurrence of the asymmetry principle.

Ekanem, I. A. (2003). "Communicating science information in a science-unfriendly environment: the experience of Nigeria." Public Understanding of Science 12(2): 203-209.	Nigeria is a vast and varied country with a great deal of activity going on in several spheres including science and technology. Although news and information concerning this area are featured in the local media, there are serious problems involving funding of research establishments by the government and other stakeholders because of a lack of commitment to implement policies drawn up to guide the sector and a not-too-buoyant economy. Consequently, the major obstacle facing those assigned the task of communicating science information in Nigeria is the unfriendly environment in which stakeholders have to operate. Apart from the low literacy level,, media reporting of science news and information is at best confined to the weekly columns that appear irregularly in some national newspapers. Even this negligible event is being threatened by economic considerations that have been found to be capable of overriding editorial judgment. There is a need to make policy-makers and the public understand and appreciate the importance of science to society. This, presumably, would naturally translate to the allocation of more funds and resources for developmental activities in the sector.

Elena, A. (1997). "Skirts in the lab: Madame Curie and the image of the woman scientist in the feature film." Public Understanding of Science 6(3): 269-278.	Recent research has appropriately emphasized the significant role played by feature films in the creation (as well as the reflection) of popular stereotypes of the scientist. However, no particular study has yet been devoted to the depiction of women scientists in the cinema, even though it is quite clear that this presents its own distinctive features. Taking the influential Madame Curie (Mervyn LeRoy, 1943) as a starting point, this paper attempts to give a first overview of the subject.

Elgesem, D., et al. (2015). "Structure and Content of the Discourse on Climate Change in the Blogosphere: The Big Picture." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(2): 169-188.	Based on the texts of 1.3 million blog posts and the structure of the links between the blogs in which these posts appeared, this study presents an analysis of the discourse on climate change in the English-language blogosphere. Our approach combines community detection with probabilistic topic modeling to show how topics related to climate change are discussed across various parts of the blogosphere. We find that there is one community of predominantly climate skeptical blogs but several accepter communities. The topic analysis reveals a series of issues that are characteristic of the climate change discourse in the blogosphere. Two topics, one related to climate change science and one related to climate change politics, are particularly important for characterizing the discourse. We also find that the distribution of topics over the communities cuts across the divide between skeptics and non-skeptics (accepters) and that there are differences in the patterns of interactions between the skeptics and different groups of accepters.

Elkinkoren, N. (1995). "The Challenges of Technological-Change to Copyright Law - Copyright Reform and Social-Change in Cyberspace." Science Communication 17(2): 186-200.	This article addresses the future of copyright law in cyberspace. It argues that the potential of cyberspace to decentralize the production and dissemination of knowledge requires adjusting copyright rules to serve the promise of decentralization and to facilitate participation in the production of knowledge. This argument is demonstrated through analysis of a reform proposal made by the Working Group on Intellectual Property of the Information infrastructure Task Force. The article suggests an alternative approach to copyright reform that focuses on facilitating the social choices created by digital technology.

Elleuch, H., et al. (2014). "A combined approach for supply chain risk management: description and application to a real hospital pharmaceutical case study." Journal of Risk Research 17(5): 641-663.	Managing risks in supply chains has emerged as an important issue in supply chain management. This research area has become familiar as supply chain risk management (SCRM). There are numerous approaches and techniques that are proposed in SCRM literature, but little in concrete and systematic approach for SCRM. In this paper, a SCRM framework comprising of different techniques and specialized procedures is proposed that can assist supply chain decision makers to risk identification, assessment and management. The combined approach consists of including the following. (1) Failure mode, effects, and criticality analysis to identify risk. (2) design of experiment to design risks mitigation and action scenarios. (3) Discrete event simulation to assess risks mitigation action scenario. (4) analytic hierarchy process to evaluate risk management scenarios. (5) desirability function approach to minimize the risk. The proposed approach is illustrated through a real hospital pharmaceutical supply chain case study.

Ellis, R., et al. (2010). "Taxonomy, biodiversity and their publics in twenty-first-century DNA barcoding." Public Understanding of Science 19(4): 497-512.	We examine the crafting of publics in the global Barcoding of Life Initiative (BOLI)-seen as crucial for re-invigorating, and democratizing, early-twenty-first-century taxonomic sciences and hence for actually achieving biodiversity protection. Our approach to the issue of publics differs from that of conventional public understanding of or engagement with science work. Combining science and technology studies with critical political theory allows us to examine the discursive and material formation of publics occurring within the science of DNA barcoding. Co-productionist theory suggests BOLI to be actively crafting its prospective publics imaginatively, as an integral part of its self-composition as public science. Drawing on the work of Laclau's On Populist Reason, we examine how such normatively weighted abstract publics are necessarily chronically incomplete, with an unavoidable tension between the universal and the particular.

Ells, K. (2008). "Ecological Rhetoric through Vicarious Narrative: The Enduring Significance of Garrett Hardin's The Tragedy of the Commons." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(3): 320-339.
	"The Tragedy of the Commons,'' a 1968 article on overpopulation by Garrett Hardin, achieved rapid and widespread popularity, and still remains influential. Hardin uses an extended hypothetical example that functions as a vicarious narrative to postulate a syllogistic proof he then applies enthymematically and by analogy to social and environmental issues. Although Hardin's inconsistent application of his analogy reveals that adopting his rhetorical strategy in environmental communication necessitates acceptance of neither Hardin's overpopulation thesis nor his political and social views, his article remains a landmark in environmental as well as ecological rhetoric.

Elsdon-Baker, F. (2015). "Creating creationists: The influence of 'issues framing' on our understanding of public perceptions of clash narratives between evolutionary science and belief." Public Understanding of Science 24(4): 422-439.	Clash narratives relating to evolutionary science and personal belief are a recurrent theme in media or public space discourse. However, a 2009 British Council poll undertaken in 10 countries worldwide shows that the perception of a necessary clash between evolutionary worldviews and belief in a God is a minority viewpoint. How then does the popular conception that there is an ongoing conflict between evolution and belief in God arise? One contributing factor is the framing and categorization of creationism and evolutionism within large-scale surveys for use within media campaigns. This article examines the issue framing within four polls conducted in the United Kingdom and internationally between 2008 and 2013. It argues that by ignoring the complexity and range of perspectives individuals hold, or by framing evolutionary science as atheistic, we are potentially creating creationists' - including Islamic creationists' - both figuratively and literally.

Emslie, C., et al. (2003). "A chip off the old block? Lay understandings of inheritance among men and women in mid-life." Public Understanding of Science 12(1): 47-65.	Recent developments in molecular biology open up the possibility of being able to provide more precise genetic information to individuals. It is therefore important to examine lay understandings of the mechanisms of inheritance. Most studies to date have focused on the beliefs of families with single gene disorders. We explored lay understandings among respondents from "ordinary" families by conducting semi-structured interviews with 61 men and women subsampled from a large community-based study. Respondents found it easy to talk about inheritance within their own family context, given that discussions about inheritance form part of family culture. They constructed family narratives using artifacts such as family photographs, and they used phrases such as "double" and "spitting image" to emphasize likeness between relatives and to reinforce continuity across generations. However, respondents were more uncertain when asked to talk in more abstract terms about the mechanisms that underlie inheritance. There was some evidence to support the hypothesis that women are the 'kinkeepers' of the family. As scientific understandings of the "new genetics" proliferate, it is important to recognize that they do not simply fill a vacuum, but must fit into pre-existing social relationships and contexts.

Enck-Wanzer, D. (2011). "Race, Coloniality, and Geo-Body Politics: The Garden as Latin@ Vernacular Discourse." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(3): 363-371.	This essay focuses critical attention on one way that The Garden ( 2008) functions as a Latin@ vernacular discourse that serves to articulate the South Central Farmers to a decolonial politics operating through a kind of "border thinking." Delinking themselves from the modern-colonial imaginary, I argue, the South Central Farmers enact a geo-body politics of knowledge that is consistently subverted, even by supporters, vis-a-vis modern-colonial rationality. Despite their apparent instrumental failure, the South Central Farmers succeeded in enacting a decolonial challenge, which compels us as scholars to rethink our approach to the Farmers' specific activism and Latin@ vernacular discourse generally.

Endersby, J. (1997). "The evolving museum." Public Understanding of Science 6(2): 185-206.	This paper examines a recent exhibition on evolution at the Australian Museum, in Sydney, and contrasts it with the museum's earlier exhibitions on the same theme, looking at the images of science each presents. The differences between the most recent display and its predecessors can be broadly grouped under three themes: the use of narrative and chronology to organize the display; the use of realistic dioramas and reconstructions; and the use of glass cases to keep the visitors and the science apart. Partly through deliberate decisions and partly through other pressures-including space, time and financial considerations-the newest exhibition has resolved some of the problems exemplified by the earlier ones. Nevertheless, other difficulties remain and the conclusion sketches some possible directions which museum designers might explore in the future.

Endres, D. (2009). "Science and Public Participation: An Analysis of Public Scientific Argument in the Yucca Mountain Controversy." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(1): 49-75.	While they make valuable and significant theoretical moves, new models of public participation in environmental decision making may not help publics navigate within traditional models of public participation. In this essay, the author builds from Kinsella's (2004) concept of public expertise and examines what she calls public scientific argument. Through an examination of the Yucca Mountain site authorization public comment period, the author analyzes how non-scientist citizens attempt to engage in scientific argument in current technocratic models of public participation. This essay not only calls our critical attention to providing practical resources for citizens faced with current technocratic models of public participation but also challenges new models to more fully consider citizen abilities to engage in scientific argument as a form of technical competency.

Endres, D. (2011). "Environmental Oral History." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(4): 485-498.	From those involved in the emergence of the modern environmental movement in the United States to those engaged in contemporary environmental controversies, there is a wealth of people who participated in and experienced these historical moments in the story of environmentalism. The stories of these people can provide new perspectives and windows into environmental issues and controversies, which are often only documented through newspaper articles, public hearing transcripts, congressional hearings, and famous speeches. In this essay, I contend that the collection and analysis of oral histories is a useful endeavor for environmental communication scholars. While oral history is not completely new to communication scholars, its potential, especially for environmental communication, has not yet been reached. Not only can the collection of oral histories create a body of archival documents for contemporary and future generations, but analysis of oral histories may reveal new insights into the communicative dimensions of environmental controversies. In addition to arguing for the value of oral history, I offer practical suggestions for undertaking oral history projects.

Endres, D. (2012). "Sacred Land or National Sacrifice Zone: The Role of Values in the Yucca Mountain Participation Process." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(3): 328-345.	Local participation in environmental decision making is a fundamental tenet of environmental justice. This essay examines the participation process for nuclear waste siting decisions and suggests that the lack of a viable means for discussion of competing values is a flaw in the currently used model of participation. Through analysis of the Yucca Mountain high-level nuclear waste site in the USA, I show how the lack of discussion of values occludes participation by marginalized American Indians. In particular, I examine the incommensurability between American Indian nations that value Yucca Mountain as sacred land and the federal government that values Yucca Mountain as a national sacrifice zone. I argue that Yucca Mountain acts as a polysemous value term in the controversy. My findings suggest that an environmentally just model of participation in environmental decision making must include a way to account for incommensurable values and cultural differences. Further, I highlight the lessons we can learn from the Yucca Mountain project as we deliberate about what to do with nuclear waste.

Endres, D., et al. (2008). "The Imperative of Praxis-based Environmental Communication Research: Suggestions from the Step It Up 2007 National Research Project." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(2): 237-245.	In this essay, we discuss our development and implementation of a national research project on the Step It Up 2007 campaign calling for political action to mitigate climate change. Specifically, we discuss this project as it relates to our goal to engage in praxis-based research that can be accessible to activists, publics, and practitioners. First, we discuss the practice of organizing a national praxis-oriented research project. We offer this project, with its benefits and challenges, as one model for engaged research on relevant environmental issues. Second, we discuss how our research findings can serve as a form of praxis when an effort is made to make the findings relevant to practitioners in environmental campaigns and movements. Reflecting on our process, we offer four suggestions for making connections between environmental communication research and environmental advocates. The essay concludes by discussing the imperative of engaging in praxis-based research about our contemporary environmental crisis.

Engdahl, E. and R. Lidskog (2014). "Risk, communication and trust: Towards an emotional understanding of trust." Public Understanding of Science 23(6): 703-717.	Current discussions on public trust, as well as on risk communication, have a restricted rationalistic bias in which the cognitive-reflexive aspect of trust is emphasized at the expense of its emotional aspect. This article contributes to a substantive theory of trust by exploring its emotional character. Drawing on recent discussions in science and technology studies, social psychology, and general social theory, it argues that trust is a modality of action that is relational, emotional, asymmetrical, and anticipatory. Hence, trust does not develop through information and the uptake of knowledge but through emotional involvement and sense-making. The implications of this conception of trust for public understandings of science and for risk communication are discussed.

Engesser, S. and M. Bruggemann (2016). "Mapping the minds of the mediators: The cognitive frames of climate journalists from five countries." Public Understanding of Science 25(7): 825-841.	This article is based on the premise that journalists play an important role as mediators of scientific information and their interpretations of climate change influence media debates and public opinion. The study maps the minds of climate journalists from five different countries (Germany, India, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States) and different types of leading media outlets. It identifies five cognitive frames that vary between attributing the responsibility for climate change to lobbying and national interests, blaming consumerist culture and the capitalist system, and expressing technological optimism. The study provides evidence for the emergence of a sustainability frame, indicates a blame game between industrialized countries and emerging economies, and shows the demand for a global ecological discourse. Finally, it explores how individual factors such as specialization, professional aims, and political alignment correlate with the cognitive frames of journalists.

Enserink, B. (2004). "Thinking the unthinkable - the end of the Dutch river dike system? Exploring a new safety concept for the river management." Journal of Risk Research 7(7-8): 745-757.	Since 1100 the Dutch relied on their continuously expanding extensive dike system for keeping dry feet and dry goods. But how durable and safe is this traditional dike concept, now the sea-level is rising and rainfall patterns seem to change? Can they continue to raise their dikes in the future or should they give more room to the river? In the Dutch mind higher dikes are saver. In practice, however, higher dikes may lead to higher risks as the consequences of failure rise. What is wrong with the risk perception of the Dutch citizen? How should risks be communicated to the public, how should a public debate on safety regimes be organized? In a study project a new safety concept in which the Dutch rivers got a free flow was explored and communicated. In an effort to reframe the issue a transition path, scenarios, impact studies and ex ante evaluations of this new safety management regime were made. A new safety paradigm seems to be taking shape. Context scenarios show under what circumstances frequent flooding can be made acceptable to the Dutch citizen and the inhabitants of the Dutch polders.

Entradas, M. (2016). "What is the public's role in "space' policymaking? Images of the public by practitioners of "space' communication in the United Kingdom." Public Understanding of Science 25(5): 603-611.	Studies on experts' understanding of the public have mainly focused on the views of scientists. We add to the literature on constructions of the public by analyzing the views of decision-makers, professional science communicators and scientists involved in space' communication on the public and public participation in policy. Findings show that contextual situations and roles determine the way the public is conceptualised: the public is sophisticated and knowledgeable to participate in space activities/citizen science, but in matters of policy, a gullible image of the public is brought up. Despite the democratic talk on participation, practitioners delimited public involvement in policy in some way or other to protect their own power and decision-making capabilities. This conception of the public competes with the stated aims of scientific and political institutions for public engagement and the substantive value of public participation, leaving a limited role for the public in space policymaking.

Entradas, M. (2016). "Experimenting with distributed approaches - Case study: A 'national-level' distributed dialogue on bioenergy in the United Kingdom." Public Understanding of Science 25(4): 490-498.	An emerging thread in the public participation debate is the need for innovative and more experimental forms of dialogue to address weaknesses of previous structured deliberative methods. This research note discusses an experiment with a distributed approach to dialogue, which used bioenergy as a case study. We discuss the potential of the model to attract a variety of publics and views and to inform policy. This is done with a view to refining future dialogues and increasing the involvement of scientists and other practitioners at the science-policy interface.

Entradas, M. and M. M. Bauer (2017). "Mobilisation for public engagement: Benchmarking the practices of research institutes." Public Understanding of Science 26(7): 771-788.	Studies on scientists' practices of public engagement have pointed to variations between disciplines. If variations at the individual level are reflected at the institutional level, then research institutes in Social Sciences (and Humanities) should perform higher in public engagement and be more involved in dialogue with the public. Using a nearly complete sample of research institutes in Portugal 2014 (n = 234, 61% response rate), we investigate how public engagement varies in intensity, type of activities and target audiences across scientific areas. Three benchmark findings emerge. First, the Social Sciences and the Humanities profile differently in public engagement highlighting the importance of distinguishing between these two scientific areas often conflated in public engagement studies. Second, the Social Sciences overall perform more public engagement activities, but the Natural Sciences mobilise more effort for public engagement. Third, while the Social Sciences play a greater role in civic public engagement, the Natural Sciences are more likely to perform educational activities. Finally, this study shows that the overall size of research institutes, available public engagement funding and public engagement staffing make a difference in institutes' public engagement.

Entradas, M., et al. (2013). "Preaching to the converted? An analysis of the UK public for space exploration." Public Understanding of Science 22(3): 269-286.	This article presents the results of a survey carried out at two space outreach events in the UK aimed at characterising "the public for space exploration" and measuring public support for space exploration. Attitude towards space exploration and policy preferences were used as measures of public support. The sample involved 744 respondents and was mainly composed of adults between 25 and 45 years old, with men slightly over-represented compared with women. Findings revealed that males appeared to be stronger supporters than females - men had a more positive attitude towards space exploration and stronger space policy preferences. Because mixed groups tend to come together to such events we argue that male respondents would be more likely to be part of the "attentive" and "interested" public who come to outreach activities and bring a less interested public with them.

Entwistle, V. (1997). "The imperative of health: Public health and the regulated body - Lupton,D." Public Understanding of Science 6(1): 103-104.
	
Escobar, M. P. and D. Demeritt (2014). "Flooding and the framing of risk in British broadsheets, 1985-2010." Public Understanding of Science 23(4): 454-471.	Our analysis of 2707 news stories explores the framing of flooding in Britain over the past quarter century and the displacement of a once dominant understanding of flooding as an agricultural problem of land drainage by the contemporary concern for its urban impacts, particularly to homes and property. We document dramatic changes in the volume and variety of reporting about flooding since 2000 as the risks of flooding have become more salient, the informal 'Gentlemen's Agreement' between government and private insurers has broken down, and flood management subjected to greater public scrutiny. While the historic reliance on private insurance remains largely unchallenged, we show that other aspects of flood hazard management are now topics of active political debate to which the looming threat of climate change adds both urgency and exculpatory excuses for poor performance. We conclude by reflecting on the significance of the case for grand theories of neoliberalisation and governmentality.

Estrada, F. C. R. and L. S. Davis (2015). "Improving Visual Communication of Science Through the Incorporation of Graphic Design Theories and Practices Into Science Communication." Science Communication 37(1): 140-148.	Visual culture is becoming an increasingly prominent part of our cultural identity in the 21st century. Consequently, images have become an important tool with which to communicate science. We identify two impediments to science communicators using visual elements effectively: (1) visual material is typically treated as an add-on instead of being an integrated part of the whole and (2) there is a lack of identifying target audiences and refining visual elements for them specifically. We argue that science communicators can become more effective visual communicators if they incorporate elements of theory and practice from the discipline of design.

Etchegary, H., et al. (2009). "Is genetic makeup a perceived health risk: analysis of a national survey of Canadians." Journal of Risk Research 12(2): 223-237.	Discoveries in human genetics research over the last two decades could influence how the public views health risks and whether they assign genes a primary role in causing illness. Using data from the 2004 Canadian National Health Risk Perception Survey, this analysis explored the perceived risk of genetic makeup and its role in disease, as well as perceptions of the risk of developing cancer, heart disease, depression, long-term disabilities and asthma. A stratified random sample of 1503 Canadians participated in the telephone survey. Genetic makeup was thought to pose a moderate health risk to Canadians, with some notable demographic differences. Perceived risk of genetic makeup was related to the perceived risk of developing adverse health outcomes. However, genetic makeup, lifestyle and the environment were all endorsed as possible causes of cancer, with respondents agreeing that cancer depended on lifestyle more than genetic makeup or the environment. The current analysis provides little evidence that Canadians hold overly deterministic attitudes about the role of genes in the induction of human disease. Results have implications for the construction of health-risk messages and health promotion campaigns.

Etkin, D. and E. Ho (2007). "Climate change: Perceptions and discourses of risk." Journal of Risk Research 10(5): 623-641.	This paper discusses some of the issues that affect risk awareness with respect to climate change and what their impact has been on people's attitudes. It highlights the large gap between the scientific community and the general public in terms of their understanding, awareness and perception of risks associated with climate change. Awareness is driven both by environmental values or political and economic agendas; particularly important are worldviews and 'myths of nature', which have a great impact on risk perception. Attitudes are further complicated because the problem of climate change comprises a form of 'post-normal science': it needs to be viewed holistically, with consideration of the feedbacks between the climate system, the human system and ecosystems; there is large uncertainty and a plurality of legitimate perspectives; and the issue is complex and difficult or impossible to fit into a traditional linear problem-solving model. It is therefore not a rational decision for most individuals to take actions to reduce risk from climate change in the absence of collective action, yet collective action is extraordinarily difficult to achieve. The benefits of risk reduction also fall primarily upon future generations, while uncertainties mean that differences in perspective, and problems of poor communication, misinformation and unstated assumptions tend to cloud the social discourse.

Evans, G. A. (1999). "The Human Genome Project and public policy." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 161-168.	The Human Genome Project is a massive government and privately funded undertaking to sequence the entire human genome and discover all 80,000 human genes in less than 15 years. As the project nears completion in the first decade of the 21st century, the ramifications of public availability of this vast amount of biological information are likely to pervade society. The legal, ethical and social issues raised by the genome project and associated biological research are expected to have a profound and long lasting impact on daily life. How society deals with the many emerging issues involving genetic privacy, designer babies, and the transformation of medical care among others will be a major focus of public and governmental discussion in the next decade.

Evans, J. H. (2014). "Faith in science in global perspective: Implications for transhumanism." Public Understanding of Science 23(7): 814-832.	While citizens can know scientific facts, they also have faith in science - with faith defined as a firm belief for which there is no proof. Using national public opinion surveys from twelve nations from 1993 to 2010, I examine three different types of faith in science that citizens could hold. I examine temporal changes in levels of faith in science as well as the social determinants of each type of faith. I focus on the implications of these levels of faith for the transhumanist movement, which is particularly dependent on faith in science. I find that two of three types of faith in science are on the rise across the West, and that the social determinants of these types of faith suggest particular challenges for the transhumanist movement.

Evans, M. S. (2009). "Defining the public, defining sociology: hybrid science-public relations and boundary-work in early American sociology." Public Understanding of Science 18(1): 5-22.	In this paper, I examine how scientific disciplines define their boundaries by defining the publics with whom they engage. The case study is an episode in the development of early American sociology. In response to the dual challenge of credibility set up by the conflict between religious Baconian science and secular positivist science, key actors engaged in specific strategies of boundary-work to create their desired "sociological public" - a hybrid form of science-public relations that appealed to hostile university scientists while excluding a supportive religious audience from participation in the production of scientific knowledge. Using this case, I offer two specific insights. First I illustrate how, in the pursuit of scientific credibility, actors engage in boundary-work to differentiate audiences, not just practitioners. Such defining of publics is constitutive of scientific disciplines in their formative stage. Second, I demonstrate how audience boundaries can be redefined through the capture of existing boundary objects. Specifically, the removal of informational content in key boundary objects creates durable boundaries that are difficult to overcome.

Evans, M. S. (2012). "Supporting Science: Reasons, Restrictions, and the Role of Religion." Science Communication 34(3): 334-362.	Religion sometimes appears to motivate objections to science and technology. But how and when does religion matter? The author examines this question from a novel perspective. Given the opportunity to limit scientific research, and having good reasons to do so, are religious persons likely to support such limits? Through individual interviews with 62 respondents, he finds that the answer is generally "no." Religious and nonreligious respondents alike deploy multiple reinforcing arguments for supporting science in order to resist any proposed limits. With rare exceptions, religious and nonreligious persons concur in their unwavering support for ongoing scientific research.

Evans, R., et al. (2009). "Just around the corner: rhetorics of progress and promise in genetic research." Public Understanding of Science 18(1): 43-59.	The emerging "diabetes epidemic" threatens to affect 366 million people worldwide by 2030. In the UK, almost 2 million people ( about 3.9 percent of the population) are currently diagnosed with diabetes and it is estimated that a further 1 million people have the disease but do not realize it. The prevalence of diabetes, its complications and their effects on the lives of those living with diabetes mean that diabetes research has the potential to bring significant benefits. In this paper, we are concerned with the research involving human embryonic stem (HES) cells that sees diabetes as a potential therapeutic location. Drawing on the idea of the "certainty trough" we examine how the hopes and uncertainties associated with this complex research agenda are understood. We show that those at the research front and those most opposed to the research agenda appear to be the most aware of the uncertainties that need to be resolved. In contrast, funders, typically one-step removed from the research work, see the promise of the research as more real and more likely to be achieved. Significantly, these optimistic funders are supported in their beliefs by the research scientists as constitutive claims are reproduced within the contingent forum. The effect is a collaborative project in which the promise of a technical solution "just around the corner" is sustained whilst concerns about the future difficulties are marginalized.

Evans, S. (2016). "Journalistic Norms, Cultural Values, and Coverage of Climate Change in the Philippines." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(4): 492-507.	Developing nations have tended to have been overlooked in studies of climate reporting. This study is based upon a content analysis of three daily newspapers in the Philippines to examine climate change coverage compared to reporting by Western wire services. In addition, the study draws on individualist-collectivist theory to theorize about differences in reporting between the Philippine and Western wire sources. Despite the historic influence of the American news system on Philippine journalism, the study finds that Western journalistic norms do not describe Philippine climate reporting well and that Filipino-penned articles are more likely to include the value of collectivism rather than individualism. This suggests that national cultural differences may be reflected in climate reporting.

Evans, W. (1998). "Bibliography." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 357-360.
	
Evans, W. (1998). "Bibliography." Public Understanding of Science 7(3): 263-266.
	
Evans, W. (1998). "Bibliography." Public Understanding of Science 7(2): 199-202.
	
Evans, W. (1999). "Bibliography." Public Understanding of Science 8(4): 357-359.
	
Evans, W. (1999). "The Human Genome Project and the public - Bibliography." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 263-266.
	
Evans, W. (1999). "Bibliography." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 71-74.
	
Evans, W. (2001). "Mapping mainstream and fringe medicine on the Internet." Science Communication 22(3): 292-299.	This report describes a system that monitors Internet discussion groups and Web sires for evidence that public interest bt herbal remedies is outpacing the available scientific evidence regarding herbal remedies. Using content analysis and bibliometric techniques, this system can identify emerging unorthodox practices and beliefs related to health and medicine. In addition. this System can map the diffusion of health-related claims across Internet communities.

Evans, W. (2001). "Bibliography." Public Understanding of Science 10(3): 339-341.
	
Evans, W. (2001). "Bibliography." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 153-155.
	
Evans, W. (2002). "Bibliography." Public Understanding of Science 11(4): 397-398.
	
Evans, W. (2002). "Untitled." Public Understanding of Science 11(3): 309-312.
	
Evans, W. (2003). "Bibliography." Public Understanding of Science 12(4): 445-446.
	
Evans, W. (2003). "Bibliography." Public Understanding of Science 12(1): 113-114.
	
Eveland, W. P. and S. Dunwoody (1998). "Users and navigation patterns of a science World Wide Web site for the public." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 285-311.	We report here initial findings of a multi-year study of public use of a World Wide Web site for science information. "The Why Files" strives to provide "the science behind the news" in story narratives that contain opportunities for both linear and non-linear navigation. We report results of two studies, one using survey data and another using computer-collected audit trails. The survey revealed that the typical user was male and well-educated, a pattern that reflects both Web users generally and the science-attentive segment of the public particularly. Audit trail data indicated that the site reached as many as 25,000 different individuals during a two-week measurement cycle. The typical pattern of site use was linear, with individuals making heavier use of in-text navigation features than of graphic ones such as page-turning buttons and page numbers. Additional information in glossaries, bibliographies, or via links to other Web sites went largely unused.

Evensen, D. T. and C. E. Clarke (2012). "Efficacy Information in Media Coverage of Infectious Disease Risks: An Ill Predicament?" Science Communication 34(3): 392-418.	Communication scholars have argued that print media ineffectively communicate efficacy information about zoonotic infectious diseases. In this study, the authors analyze U.S. newspaper coverage of West Nile virus and avian influenza, focusing on (a) personal efficacy information and (b) actions societal actors (e.g., government officials) can/should take to address disease risks ("societal efficacy"). Their findings indicate an emphasis on societal efficacy (64% of West Nile virus sample; 81% avian influenza) versus personal efficacy (51% and 55%) and disease symptoms (32% and 10%). The authors speculate that scholars potentially underestimate the magnitude and types of efficacy information within mass media coverage and discuss implications for risk communication.

Evensen, D. T., et al. (2013). "Shifting reactions to risks: a case study." Journal of Risk Research 16(1): 81-96.	Social science research in the field of risk analysis has emphasised evaluating the magnitude of individuals' reactions to risks (e.g. strength and salience of concerns, frequency and forcefulness of behaviours that respond to risks). Fewer studies assess the factors that contribute to risk reactions or the types of risks to which reactions are directed (e.g. human health, wildlife health or ecosystem health risks; economic or aesthetic concerns). Theoretical and empirical research on amplification and attenuation of risk (e.g. the Social Amplification of Risk Framework) reveals that the strength of people's reaction to risks can change markedly over time, as a function of new stimuli. We expand on this foundation to consider here how the types of risks members of the public react to may also shift over the course of their exposure to a hazard, particularly as more information about the hazard becomes available. This case study of risk reactions related to an outbreak of type E botulism in north-western Michigan, USA, demonstrates that the types of risks people react to can change substantially over time. We identify factors that contributed to changes in types of risk reactions, and then consider how these factors potentially distinguish the botulism outbreak from other outbreaks. This case study suggests that, under certain conditions, risk communication can meaningfully alter the types of risks that people react to in response to an environmental hazard. We discuss implications of these findings for risk research, risk communication and environmental conservation.

Fahlquist, J. N. and S. Roeser (2015). "Nuclear energy, responsible risk communication and moral emotions: a three level framework." Journal of Risk Research 18(3): 333-346.	Communication about nuclear risks is treacherous territory, especially after Fukushima, requiring not only considerations about effectiveness, but also about ethical legitimacy. In this paper, a three-level framework of morally responsible risk communication is developed, focusing on the procedure, the message and the effects of risk communication. This gives rise to three conditions of ethically responsible risk communication: it requires a legitimate procedure, an ethically justified risk message and concern for and evaluation of the effects of the message and procedure. The role of emotions, such as sympathy, empathy and feelings or responsibility, is emphasized as a key to addressing and explicating moral values at these three levels. Emotions point out moral aspects of risks such as justice, fairness and autonomy. This framework can shed important new light on morally responsible communication about nuclear risks. The first condition of this framework requires that the procedure of communication is participatory, in order to include the relevant moral emotions and values concerning nuclear energy of all stakeholders. A legitimate procedure does not guarantee an ethically justified message concerning nuclear risks. For this reason, the second condition requires an ethical deliberation of the message and the values and emotions entailed in it. Finally, the third condition requires a moral evaluation of the effects of risk communication concerning nuclear energy. A successful risk communication effort triggers reflection, compassion and a willingness to take responsibility for energy-related issues. Problematic effects of risk communication can be a lack of trust or a sense of hopelessness and passivity. Evaluating all three levels from a moral point of view should be done in an iterative way, allowing possible revisions and improvements. Considering the high stakes and current stalemates in the nuclear debate, the suggested model provides a promising, constructive and morally legitimate way forward.

Fahnrich, B. (2017). "Science diplomacy: Investigating the perspective of scholars on politics-science collaboration in international affairs." Public Understanding of Science 26(6): 688-703.	Science diplomacy is a widely practiced area of international affairs, but academic research is rather sparse. The role of academia within this field of politics-science interaction has hardly been considered. This article analyzes this scholarly perspective: Based on a literature review, a case study of a German science diplomacy program is used to explore objectives, benefits, and constraints of science diplomacy for participating scholars. While political approaches suggest an ideal world where both sides profit from the collaboration, the findings of the case study point to another conclusion which shows that the interaction of scholars and officials in science diplomacy is far more complex. Thus, the contribution is regarded as both a useful starting point for further research and for a critical reflection of academics and politicians in science diplomacy practice to gauge what can be expected from the collaboration and what cannot.

Fahnrich, B. (2018). "Science Communication: Culture, Identity and Citizenship." Public Understanding of Science 27(6): 752-753.
	
Fahnrich, B. and C. Luthje (2017). "Roles of Social Scientists in Crisis Media Reporting: The Case of the German Populist Radical Right Movement PEGIDA." Science Communication 39(4): 415-442.	This article examines the visibility of social scientists in the context of crisis media reporting by using the example of the German populist radical right movement PEGIDA. Based on previous research, a role typology was developed to serve as a framework for the empirical study. A content analysis of German newspapers demonstrates that social scientists are quite visible in the media coverage of PEGIDA and are presented mainly in the role of intellectuals. At the same time, new roles for social scientists are also discernible. Based on these findings, an extended role typology was developed to provide points of reference for further research.

Fahy, D. (2016). "Emerging Infectious Diseases and Society." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 1021-1022.
	
Fahy, D. (2017). "Historical moments in public understanding of science: 1977, The Visible Scientists identifies a new scientist for the mass media age." Public Understanding of Science 26(8): 1019-1024.
	
Fahy, D. (2018). "Making Marie Curie: Intellectual Property and Celebrity Culture in an Age of Information." Public Understanding of Science 27(4): 489-489.
	
Fahy, D. (2018). "The laureate as celebrity genius: How Scientific American's John Horgan profiled Nobel Prize winners." Public Understanding of Science 27(4): 433-445.	When scientists become Nobel laureates, they become famous in science and public life, but few studies have examined the nature of their scientific celebrity. This article examines how Scientific American portrayed laureates in order to identify and explain core features of Nobel fame. It examines the portrayals of seven laureates - Francis Crick, Linus Pauling, Hans Bethe, Murray Gell-Mann, Brian Josephson, Philip Anderson and Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar - in magazine profiles written between 1992 and 1995 by science writer John Horgan. Its textual analysis finds the scientists are portrayed as combining the sociological characteristics of genius, including enormous productivity and lasting impact, with the representational characteristics of celebrities, such as the merging of public and private lives. Their form of scientific celebrity is grounded in their field-changing research, which is presented as a product of their idiosyncratic personalities. Nobel science is presented as knowledge created by an ultra-elite of exceptional individuals.

Fahy, D. (2018). "Objectivity as Trained Judgment: How Environmental Reporters Pioneered Journalism for a "Post-truth" Era." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(7): 855-861.	Amid debate about the role and practices of journalism in the era of Presidents Trump and Putin, this commentary argues that environmental journalism offers a conceptual model and guide to action for all journalists in the "post-truth" or "post-fact" era. Since the specialism was formed in the 1960s, environmental journalists have reported on politically partisan issues where facts are contested, expertise is challenged, and uncertainty is heightened. To deal with these and other challenges, environmental journalism, this commentary argues, has reassessed and reconfigured the foundational journalistic concept of objectivity. The specialism has come to view objectivity as the implementation of a transparent method, as the pluralistic search for consensus, and, most importantly, as trained judgment. By developing these definitions through the reporting of several science policy controversies, environmental journalists have pioneered journalism for the "post-truth" era.

Falade, B. A. and M. W. Bauer (2018). ""I have faith in science and in God': Common sense, cognitive polyphasia and attitudes to science in Nigeria." Public Understanding of Science 27(1): 29-46.	This study, of modern common sense in Nigeria, combines questionnaires and interviews to examine the compatibility and incompatibility of religion and science. Nigeria is a large country with a complex diversity of religious, ethnic and cultural practices that condition the reception and elaboration of science in everyday life. We find evaluative attitudes to science structured as progress', fear' and mythical image'. Scientific knowledge and religiosity have a direct bearing on expectations of progress and feeling of fear and worry about science; mythical image is independent of this. Nigerians trust both scientific and religious authorities in contrast to other social actors. Many of the results are consistent with the hypothesis of cognitive polyphasia of scientific and religious knowing manifesting as a hierarchy', when one form is elevated over the other; parallelity', when both serve separate functions; and empowerment', where one enhances the other.

Falchetti, E., et al. (2007). "What do laypersons want to know from scientists? An analysis of a dialogue between scientists and laypersons on the web site Scienzaonline." Public Understanding of Science 16(4): 489-506.	Scienzaonline is an interactive web site developed by the Museum of Zoology of Rome that offers various services. After the site had been online for three years, we examined approximately 800 questions received by the service Expert on line to understand what laypeople's interests in science are and in which life contexts they emerge. The contents of the questions were categorized to reveal the function and the nature of the knowledge that people expect from "experts". Some kind of actual accomplishment motivates most of the questions, though a considerable number of them have knowledge and understanding as their objective. Information is the main form of expected knowledge and disciplinary knowledge is viewed as the privileged source of it. A relevant percentage of messages reveal the desire to obtain explanations and validations of reported facts, an aid to go beyond factual knowledge. Striving to find answers to "great unanswered questions" emerges as a passionate intellectual endeavor for some people.

Falk, J. H., et al. (2012). "Mapping the informal science education landscape: An exploratory study." Public Understanding of Science 21(7): 865-874.	This study investigated the informal science education (ISE) field to determine whether it currently functions as an effective community of practice. Research questions included: How do professionals describe and self-identify their practice, including what missions, goals and motivating factors influence their professional work? What challenges do they face and how are these resolved? Is participation in ISE activities perceived as core or peripheral to their work? Open-ended interviews were conducted with high-level representatives of 17 different ISE sub-communities; results were analyzed qualitatively. Findings showed this broad assortment of ISE sub-communities as not currently functioning as a cohesive community of practice. Although examples of shared practice and ways of talking were found, evidence of widespread, active relationship-building over time and coalescence around issues of common concern were absent. A current "map" of the ISE community is proposed and thoughts about how this map could alter in the future are suggested.

Falk, J. H., et al. (2007). "Investigating public science interest and understanding: evidence for the importance of free-choice learning." Public Understanding of Science 16(4): 455-469.	Historically, most of the focus of science education has been on pre-college and college level schooling. Although some of the public's interest and knowledge about science is unquestionably shaped-by compulsory schooling, given that the average adult spends only a fraction of their life participating in some kind of formal schooling, we argue that the contribution of school-based science learning to the long-term public understanding of science is limited, particularly for the majority of Americans who do not go on to post-secondary schooling. This article shows that the majority of the public constructs much of its understanding of science over the course of their lives, gathering information from many places and contexts, and for a diversity of reasons. A random telephone survey of Los Angeles, California residents found that nearly half (43 percent) of the public's self-reported science understanding derives from leisure time, free-choice learning; science understanding was primarily acquired for reasons related to personal interest, need and/or curiosity. The conclusion drawn from this preliminary investigation is that future efforts to understand and support the public's. understanding of science will require approaches that take into account individual differences and the unique personal and context-specific nature of knowledge; findings also support the value of asset-based approaches to education which build from strengths rather than dwelling upon deficits.

Fan, M. F. (2009). "Public perceptions and the nuclear waste repository on Orchid Island, Taiwan." Public Understanding of Science 18(2): 167-176.	This paper examines public perceptions of the nuclear waste repository on Orchid Island, Taiwan and how differing perceived risk and knowledge of nuclear waste might relate to worldviews, culture and social experiences. The majority of the aboriginal Yami groups' perceptions of the impacts of the nuclear waste repository contrast sharply with the Taiwanese migrants' view on technology and environmental problems. Elderly Yami tend to regard nuclear waste as "evil ghosts." At the same time, ambivalence and expressions of uncertainty about the risk prevail amongst Yami employed by Taipower (Taiwan Power Company), the generator of these evil ghosts. For many of the Taiwanese migrants, the Yami's invariable objection to the nuclear waste repository is shaped by an exclusionary attitude toward anything foreign-i.e., a tribal resistance to the dominant Taiwanese society. The disputes over the nuclear waste repository reflect not just the Yami's fear of risk, but also the complexity of political and social relationships.

Fan, M. F. (2012). "Justice, community knowledge, and waste facility siting in Taiwan." Public Understanding of Science 21(4): 418-431.	This article examines justice in the context of a controversial industrial waste facility siting in a Hakka (a minority ethnic group) town in Taiwan. It provides analysis of local perceptions of disproportionate risk, community knowledge claims, and the challenges of citizens to the controversial environmental impact assessment process. It explores knowledge disputes among regulators, developers, and local activists; it considers the struggle of local actors for recognition and inclusion in decision-making; and it argues for the development of institutional procedures that promote dialogue among stakeholders in order to avoid the preemption of debate, the control of the frame by the government and experts, and the centralization of power.

Fan, M. F. (2015). "Evaluating the 2008 consensus conference on genetically modified foods in Taiwan." Public Understanding of Science 24(5): 533-546.	Genetically modified foods have become one of the most popular topics for deliberative exercises involving ordinary citizens worldwide. This paper examines the Taiwanese consensus conference on GM foods held in June 2008, and the implications and limitations of the public deliberations. The consensus conference facilitated multiparty dialogues and enhanced citizens' knowledge, and affected their attitudes. This study demonstrates the ways contextual factors have influenced the outcome of the citizens' deliberative practices, including the government's conventional technocratic decision-making style, the strong influence of the U.S. government, the political and technological culture, the government's framing of economic development concerns, and a lack of pressure from civil society to compel the government to formally respond to their concerns. The consensus conference had a limited effect on policy decision-making, and seemed to serve as a socio-political experiment.

Fang, X. (2014). "Local people's understanding of risk from civil nuclear power in the Chinese context." Public Understanding of Science 23(3): 283-298.	This paper analyses how people understand civil nuclear risk in the local context in China. The findings of the paper are based on six months of fieldwork research on a potential inland nuclear power project in Dapu townland in 2007 and 2008. Understanding varies greatly depending on local context, with economic, geographic and social factors influencing the way people view risks and benefits. I argue that when local people do not have enough 'scientific knowledge' to understand risk from nuclear power, they can still use their experience of everyday life to reflect rationally on the risks and benefits that they face. I conclude that when local people trust in nuclear technology and 'the government', and are unaware of nuclear risk it is partly because of their over-dependence on institutions and experts. However, despite their lack of agency, local people rationally calculate risk and benefit in accordance with their social identity and geographical location.

Farmelo, G. (1998). "The politics of display: Museums, science, culture." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 352-354.
	
Farmelo, G. (1998). "The science center movement: contexts, practice, next challenges - Responses." Public Understanding of Science 7(1): 23-26.
	
Farnsworth, S. J. and S. R. Lichter (2012). "Scientific Assessments of Climate Change Information in News and Entertainment Media." Science Communication 34(4): 435-459.	An elite survey of members of the American Meteorological Society and the American Geophysical Union conducted in 2007 reveals that the vast majority of climate scientists positively assess both national print news reports and Al Gore's film An Inconvenient Truth as informative, with lower grades being assessed on climate change content that appeared on network and cable television news as well as in Michael Crichton's novel State of Fear. Multivariate analysis reveals that more positive scientific assessments are associated in most cases with the level of confidence scientists have in the research conducted by their colleagues as well the severity of the impact they anticipate from global warming in the years ahead.

Farrimond, H. R. and S. E. Kelly (2013). "Public viewpoints on new non-invasive prenatal genetic tests." Public Understanding of Science 22(6): 730-744.	Prenatal screening programmes have been critiqued for their routine implementation according to clinical rationale without public debate. A new approach, non-invasive prenatal diagnosis (NIPD), promises diagnosis of fetal genetic disorders from a sample of maternal blood without the miscarriage risk of current invasive prenatal tests (e.g. amniocentesis). Little research has investigated the attitudes of wider publics to NIPD. This study used Q-methodology, which combines factor analysis with qualitative comments, to identify four distinct viewpoints amongst 71 UK men and women: 1. NIPD as a new tool in the ongoing societal discrimination against the disabled; 2. NIPD as a positive clinical application offering peace of mind in pregnancy; 3. NIPD as a medical option justified for severe disorders only; and 4. NIPD as a valid expansion of personal choice. Concerns included the trivialisation of testing and the implications of commercial/direct-to-consumer tests. Q-methodology has considerable potential to identify viewpoints and frame public debate about new technologies.

Featherstoner, H., et al. (2009). "Defining issue-based publics for public engagement: climate change as a case study." Public Understanding of Science 18(2): 214-228.	Understanding your audiences' perceptions is key to the success of any communication campaign. This research note outlines a pilot study using the Situational Model of publics to segment the broader public. Focus groups were used to study publics' understandings and perceptions of climate change to determine if this issue-based publics model is relevant to this field. The work shows the potential of this model of publics, but in the case of climate change it may need a minor refinement.

Feinstein, N. W. (2014). "Making sense of autism: Progressive engagement with science among parents of young, recently diagnosed autistic children." Public Understanding of Science 23(5): 592-609.	This exploratory study examines the significance of science to parents whose children were recently diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder. It asks: (1) In what manner did science emerge in parents' concerns and resources as they attempted to understand and advocate for their children? (2) Did some parents engage with science in a qualitatively deeper or more intense manner? Using longitudinal data from interviews and a novel data collection strategy called engagement mapping, it shows that parents asked questions and used resources that were strongly associated with science, but these were vastly outnumbered by "near-science" concerns and resources that mingled meanings from science and daily life. Several parents in the study wove together concerns and resources in an iterative pattern referred to here as progressive engagement with science.

Feldman, L. and P. S. Hart (2016). "Using Political Efficacy Messages to Increase Climate Activism: The Mediating Role of Emotions." Science Communication 38(1): 99-127.	Using an online experiment with a national sample, this study tests the effects of political efficacy messages on two types of climate-related political participation via the discrete emotions of hope, fear, and anger and compares these effects across ideological groups. Relative to a message that discusses only negative climate impacts, messages that emphasize the internal, external, or response efficacy of political actions to address climate change are found to influence hope and fear but not anger, and these effects vary by political ideology. Furthermore, exposure to efficacy information indirectly increases participation via hopeeven, in some cases, among conservatives.

Feldman, L. and P. S. Hart (2018). "Is There Any Hope? How Climate Change News Imagery and Text Influence Audience Emotions and Support for Climate Mitigation Policies." Risk Analysis 38(3): 585-602.	Using a national sample, this study experimentally tests the effects of news visuals and texts that emphasize either the causes and impacts of climate change or actions that can be taken to address climate change. We test the effects of variations in text and imagery on discrete emotions (i.e., hope, fear, and anger) and, indirectly, on support for climate mitigation policies. Political ideology is examined as a moderator. The findings indicate that news images and texts that focus on climate-oriented actions can increase hope and, in the case of texts, decrease fear and anger, and these effects generally hold across the ideological spectrum. In turn, the influence of emotions on policy support depends on ideology: Hope and fear increase support for climate policies for all ideological groups but particularly conservatives, whereas anger polarizes the opinions of liberals and conservatives. Implications for climate change communication that appeals to emotions are discussed.

Feldman, L., et al. (2017). "Polarizing news? Representations of threat and efficacy in leading US newspapers' coverage of climate change." Public Understanding of Science 26(4): 481-497.	This study examines non-editorial news coverage in leading US newspapers as a source of ideological differences on climate change. A quantitative content analysis compared how the threat of climate change and efficacy for actions to address it were represented in climate change coverage across The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, and USA Today between 2006 and 2011. Results show that The Wall Street Journal was least likely to discuss the impacts of and threat posed by climate change and most likely to include negative efficacy information and use conflict and negative economic framing when discussing actions to address climate change. The inclusion of positive efficacy information was similar across newspapers. Also, across all newspapers, climate impacts and actions to address climate change were more likely to be discussed separately than together in the same article. Implications for public engagement and ideological polarization are discussed.

Feldpausch-Parker, A. M. and T. R. Peterson (2015). "Communicating the Science behind Carbon Sequestration: A Case Study of US Department of Energy and Regional Partnership Websites." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 326-345.	Websites now serve as a dominant communication strategy for government. As such, the US Department of Energy (USDOE) incorporated websites into outreach efforts for their carbon capture and storage (CCS) initiative. In this study, we examined communication strategies demonstrated within USDOE and CCS partnership websites with a focus on the use of science and technology to influence public acceptance. We found expertise to be a dominant theme throughout with content often incorporating technical jargon. Furthermore, we found instances where text targeted industry audiences over public. Though the professed intent of websites was to inform the public of USDOE/partnership activities, our analysis indicated that the websites function primarily to promote CCS technologies as a means for continued use of fossil fuels. The disparity between the avowed purpose of the websites and what we found was normalized through arguments from institutional authority and claims of expertise in social and scientific fields.

Feldpausch-Parker, A. M., et al. (2013). "Spreading the News on Carbon Capture and Storage: A State-Level Comparison of US Media." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(3): 336-354.	Carbon capture and storage (CCS) has received abundant federal support in the USA as an energy technology to mitigate climate change, yet its position within the energy system remains uncertain. Because media play a significant role in shaping public conversations about science and technology, we analyzed media portrayal of CCS in newspapers from four strategically selected states. We grounded the analysis in Luhmann's theory of social functions, operationalized through the socio-political evaluation of energy deployment (SPEED) framework. Coverage emphasized economic, political/legal, and technical functions and focused on benefits, rather than risks of adoption. Although news coverage connected CCS with climate change, the connection was constrained by political/legal functions. Media responses to this constraint indicate how communication across multiple social functions may influence deployment of energy technologies.

Fellenor, J., et al. (2018). "The social amplification of risk on Twitter: the case of ash dieback disease in the United Kingdom." Journal of Risk Research 21(10): 1163-1183.	It has long been recognised that the traditional media play a key role in representing risk and are a significant source of information which can shape how people perceive and respond to hazard events. Early work utilising the social amplification of risk framework (SARF) sought to understand the discrepancy between expert and lay perceptions of risk and patterns of risk intensification and attenuation with reference to the media. However, the advent of Web 2.0 challenges traditional models of communication. To date there has been limited consideration of social media within the SARF and its role in mediating processes of risk perception and communication. Against this backdrop, we focus on the social media platform Twitter to consider the social amplification of risk in relation to ash dieback disease (Hymenoscyphus fraxineus); a tree health issue that attracted intense media attention when it was first identified in the UK in 2012. We present an empirical analysis of 25,600 tweets in order to explore what people were saying about ash dieback on Twitter, who was talking about it and how they talked about it. Our discussion outlines the themes around which talk about ash dieback was orientated, the significance of users' environmental affiliations' and the role of including links (URLs) to traditional media coverage. We utilise the notion of piggybacking' to demonstrate how information is customised in line with group/individual identities and interests and introduce the concept of the frame fragment' to illustrate how information is selected and moved around Twitter emphasising certain features of the messages. The paper affords a detailed consideration of the way in which people and organisations simultaneously appropriate, construct and pass on risk-relevant information. A conclusion is that social media has the potential to transform the media landscape within which the SARF was originally conceived, presenting renewed challenges for risk communication.

Felt, U., et al. (2009). "Unruly ethics: on the difficulties of a bottom-up approach to ethics in the field of genomics." Public Understanding of Science 18(3): 354-371.	This paper explores the difficulties of addressing ethical questions of genome research in a public engagement setting where laypeople and scientists met for a longer period of time. While professional ethics mostly ignores public meaning, we aimed at a bottom-up approach to ethics in order to broaden the way in which ethical aspects of genomics can be addressed. However, within this interaction we identified a number of difficulties that constrained an open discussion on ethical issues. Thus, we analyze how ethical issues were approached, framed, debated, displaced or closed. We then elaborate on the possibilities and limits of dealing with ethics in such a participatory setting. We conclude by hinting at what should be taken into consideration when approaching issues of science and ethics more "upstream."

Ferrari, M. P. (2013). "Sporting Nature(s): Wildness, the Primitive, and Naturalizing Imagery in MMA and Sports Advertisements." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(2): 277-296.	This essay examines two Nike commercials, a TapOut commercial, and the proliferation of mixed martial arts (MMA) t-shirt visual culture, all of which symbolically link wildness and nature as primitivity to their particular sport contexts. MMA in particular, it is argued, is more symbolically available to symbolic discourses of the natural and the primitive because of the sport's technological minimalism. The MMA t-shirt is posited as a safe, masculine primitive performance, functioning as an expressive personal substitute (or supplement) to the analogous tattoos worn by many fighters and fans. Additionally, this paper reviews and connects several disparate bodies of literature, moving from a discussion of eco-critical principles for critiquing the cultural production of nature / the natural, to an assessment of nature as primitivity, and finally to highlight how critical analyses of sport and MMA implicate related categories. While environmental communication has addressed the place of nature in advertising, little has been written about how discourses of nature, gender, and the environment intersect with the highly mediatized culture of sports. This article adds to the subfield by initiating just such a critical discussion. Finally, I contend that one of the main ideological functions of the employment of nature imagery here is to implicitly authorize notions of wildness or the primitive in close association with a male animal ideology, and also to symbolically reinforce existing narratives which naturalize aggression. These advertisements posit, I argue, a metaphysical rather than realist ecological discourse, enabling an unsustainable narrative of the naturalness of human-on-human violence and aggression.

Ferreira, C. (2004). "Risk, transparency and cover up: media narratives and cultural resonance." Journal of Risk Research 7(2): 199-211.	Ideas of transparency and trust have become more and more in fashion in public policy discourse. However, these ideas do not make much sense without an understanding of what lack of transparency and distrust may involve. The theme of deliberate and intended 'cover up' by governments, officials or by industry that want to hide known risks or negative effects from the public constitutes an essential component of media stories of controversy over facility siting. Such stories tell of tendencies to play down, silence and even conceal events that may lead to harm. This paper attempts to single out the bits and pieces of visual imagery from which the theme of risk-related 'cover up' is culturally constructed by using a made-in-Hollywood film as an empirical example. Film is regarded here as a form of vicarious interaction with other people, where viewers closely identify with the portrayed human, social, and environmental conflicts. It is suggested that risk communication among the public, technical experts and decision makers can be improved by an understanding of how people respond to and think about visual representations of risk.

Ferreira, C. (2006). "Food information environments: Risk communication and advertising imagery." Journal of Risk Research 9(8): 851-868.	The imagery of any foodstuff is shaped by assumptions of what is culturally valued as food, assumptions that are also fed by marketing, expert nutritional advice and intermittent food "alarms''. This paper raises the issue of risk communication versus advertising and argues that in order to better understand consumers' response to food risk communication we should pay closer attention to the broader information environment in which the compromised foodstuffs are embedded. Any new information properly crafted in the form of "risk messages'' necessarily interacts with the information that constitutes the foodstuff's environment. It is proposed that focusing on such an environment, rather than on the "content'' of the risk message alone, improves understanding of how the risk message eventually triggers further selections and decisions about the compromised foodstuff. The risk communication is itself a media event and is seen as part of the food information environment rather than autonomous to it.

Ferry, S. (1999). "Science incarnate: Historical embodiments of natural knowledge." Public Understanding of Science 8(2): 141-142.
	
Field, H. and P. Powell (2001). "Public understanding of science versus public understanding of research." Public Understanding of Science 10(4): 421-426.	The current world research agenda is comprehensive. The results of many studies and experiments in which scientists are currently engaged will undoubtedly have profound impacts on the lives of citizens in developed and developing nations. Yet few people even know what research is being conducted, much less understand why it is being done and what the potential implications may be. This is a critical shortcoming of our public information system. Given the frenetic pace of science research in multi-disciplinary fields, it is increasingly vital that the public be made aware of new findings in a coherent manner. The field of informal, public education is uniquely poised to reach the public at all levels, so that those who need the information most, i.e., those who make or will make decisions for themselves and their families, have access to accurate, up-to-date, unbiased, and substantive information.

FifeSchaw, C. and G. Rowe (1996). "Public perceptions of everyday food hazards: A psychometric study." Risk Analysis 16(4): 487-500.	In this paper, we discuss the conduct and results of a study aimed at eliciting public perceptions of food-related hazards. This study employs the psychometric approach of Paul Slovic and colleagues and aims to extend the recent work of Sparks and Shepherd((1)), on defining the primary dimensions of food-related risk perceptions. The study surveyed a nationally representative sample of the general public (respondents = 293; adjusted response rare = 30.1%). Respondents provided ratings on subsets of 22 potential food hazards (e.g., food irradiation and presence of listeria) on a total of 19 risk characteristics (e.g., ''perceived severity of risk'' and ''adequacy of governmental regulations''). Ln spite of the use of a number of new characteristics and food hazards, Principal Components Analysis revealed a broadly similar factor structure to that obtained by Sparks and Shepherd,cl, suggesting the generalizability of the key dimensions (concerning the severity and awareness of hazards). Interestingly, the positioning in the factor space of potential hazards about which little was generally known (e.g., campylobacter) as being serious and in need of regulation, may suggest a possible ''starting position'' in the perception of new hazards that have not previously been the subject of risk communications.

Figuie, M. and T. Fournier (2008). "Avian influenza in Vietnam: Chicken-hearted consumers?" Risk Analysis 28(2): 441-451.	This study, based on quantitative and qualitative surveys conducted from July 2004 to September 2005, examines the perceptions of Hanoi consumers and their reactions to the Avian Influenza epizootic (H5N1). Hanoi consumers clearly link the risk of human contamination by the virus to the preparation and ingestion of poultry. During the first crisis, consumers reacted quickly and intensely (74% of them had already stopped eating poultry in January 2004). Nevertheless, once the crisis abated, they quickly resumed their consumption of poultry. This behavior corresponds to the pattern described by empirical studies of other crises, such as BSE. What is more surprising is the speed with which the different steps of this common pattern succeeded one another. It may be explained by a rapid decrease in risk anxiety. A logit model shows that, soon after the beginning of the crisis, AI risk anxiety was tempered by confidence in the information and recommendations issued by the government concerning AI and, in the long term, by a high perceived self-efficiency to deal with AI. Indeed, not only has poultry consumption been affected in terms of the quantity consumed, but alternative ways of selecting and preparing poultry have also been adopted as anti-risk practices. Risk communication strategies should take this into account, and rely on a previous assessment of consumer practices adopted to deal with the risk.

Finucane, M. L. (2008). "Emotion, affect, and risk communication with older adults: challenges and opportunities." Journal of Risk Research 11(8): 983-997.	Recent research suggests that emotion, affect, and cognition play important roles in risk perception and that their roles in judgment and decision-making processes may change over the lifespan. This paper discusses how emotion and affect might help or hinder risk communication with older adults. Currently, there are few guidelines for developing effective risk messages for the world's aging population, despite the array of complex risk decisions that come with increasing age and the importance of maintaining good decision making in later life. Age-related declines in cognitive abilities such as memory and processing speed, increased reliance on automatic processes, and adaptive motivational shifts toward focusing more on affective (especially positive) information mean that older and younger adults may respond differently to risk messages. Implications for specific risk information formats (probabilities, frequencies, visual displays, and narratives) are discussed and directions for future research are highlighted.

Finucane, M. L. and J. L. Holup (2006). "Risk as value: Combining affect and analysis in risk judgments." Journal of Risk Research 9(2): 141-164.	Studies of public perceptions of hazardous activities and technologies include a wide range of approaches. One approach-"risk-as-analysis"-emphasizes the human capacity for analytic deliberation. A second approach-"risk-as-feelings"-emphasizes the tendency for people to rely on affective reactions. In this paper we expand and link these approaches by adopting a "risk-as-value" model, emphasizing that responses to risk result from a combination of analysis and affect that motivates individuals and groups to achieve a particular way of life. Derived from dual-process theories, the risk-as-value model implies that differences in perceived risk may arise from differences in the analytic evaluation of a risk, differences in the affective evaluation of a risk, or the way these evaluations are combined. We discuss the goals of dual processes in comprehensively governing the valuation of risk information in order to achieve desirable outcomes. We highlight the importance of model-based research and the need for researchers to look for converging evidence using multiple dependent measures and methods. Implications for risk communication are discussed.

Fischer, A. R. H., et al. (2005). "Improving food safety in the domestic environment: The need for a transdisciplinary approach." Risk Analysis 25(3): 503-517.	Microbial food safety has been the focus of research across various disciplines within the risk analysis community. Natural scientists involved in food microbiology and related disciplines work on the identification of health hazards, and the detection of pathogenic microorganisms. To perform risk assessment, research activities are increasingly focused on the quantification of microbial contamination of food products at various stages in the food chain, and modeling the impact of this contamination on human health. Social scientists conduct research into how consumers perceive food risks, and how best to develop effective risk communication with consumers in order to improve public health through improved food handling practices. The two approaches converge at the end of the food chain, where the activities regarding food preparation and food consumption are considered. Both natural and social sciences may benefit from input and expertise from the perspective of the alternative discipline, although, to date, the integration of social and natural sciences has been somewhat limited. This article therefore explores the potential of a transdisciplinary approach to food risk analysis in terms of delivering additional improvements to public health. Developing knowledge arising from research in both the natural and social sciences, we present a novel framework involving the integration of the two approaches that might provide the most effective way to improve the consumer health associated with food-borne illness.

Fischer, A. R. H., et al. (2006). "Toward improving food safety in the domestic environment: A multi-item Rasch scale for the measurement of the safety efficacy of domestic food-handling practices." Risk Analysis 26(5): 1323-1338.	To reduce consumer health risks from foodborne diseases that result from improper domestic food handling, consumers need to know how to safely handle food. To realize improvements in public health, it is necessary to develop interventions that match the needs of individual consumers. Successful intervention strategies are therefore contingent on identifying not only the practices that are important for consumer protection, but also barriers that prevent consumers from responding to these interventions. A measure of food safety behavior is needed to assess the effectiveness of different intervention strategies across different groups of consumers. A nationally representative survey was conducted in the Netherlands to determine which practices are likely conducted by which consumers. Participants reported their behaviors with respect to 55 different food-handling practices. The Rasch modeling technique was used to determine a general measure for the likelihood of an average consumer performing each food-handling behavior. Simultaneously, an average performance measure was estimated for each consumer. These two measures can be combined to predict the likelihood that an individual consumer engages in a specific food-handling behavior. A single "food safety" dimension was shown to underlie all items. Some potentially safe practices (e.g., use of meat thermometers) were reported as very difficult, while other safe practices were conducted by respondents more frequently (e.g., washing of fresh fruit and vegetables). A cluster analysis was applied to the resulting data set, and five segments of consumers were identified. Different behaviors may have different effects on microbial growth in food, and thus have different consequences for human health. Once the microbial relevance of the different consumer behaviors has been confirmed by experiments and modeling, the scale developed in the research reported here can be used to develop risk communication targeted to the needs of different consumer groups, as well as to measure the efficacy of different interventions.

Fischer, A. R. H., et al. (2013). "Attitudes and attitudinal ambivalence change towards nanotechnology applied to food production." Public Understanding of Science 22(7): 817-831.	The strategic development of novel nanotechnologies will be determined by their public acceptance, which in turn may be influenced by public perceptions of the risks and benefits associated with the specific applications. At the present time, public opinions towards nanotechnologies remain largely inchoate, although this is likely to change with increasing public exposure to relevant information. In two experiments, a total of 618 participants, from the UK population, were provided with different risk-benefit information on nanotechnology application in food. The results show that the provision of both risk and benefit information does not influence average attitude, but results in some individuals becoming more positive and less ambivalent and others more negative and less ambivalent towards nanotechnologies. A third group maintained a neutral attitude and became more ambivalent. It is concluded that to understand public opinion formation about nanotechnology keeping track of polarization and ambivalence is important.

Fischer, G. W., et al. (1991). "What Risks Are People Concerned About." Risk Analysis 11(2): 303-314.
	
Fischhendler, I., et al. (2016). "How Competing Securitized Discourses over Land Appropriation Are Constructed: The Promotion of Solar Energy in the Israeli Desert." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(2): 147-168.	Although solar farms are often favorably received by the public due to their contribution to clean energy, they are not conflict-free. In various contexts, this land-intensive technology often competes with other land uses like agriculture, nature reserves, and army training. As a result of this competition, interest groups often seek political leverage in order to prioritize their spatial use. Framing their uses as existential is one possible way to capture the attention of decision-makers. Yet, this securitization process may create a framing contest whereby different actors use similar securitization language to promote different land uses. This study is the first attempt to trace how this framing contest of securitized discourses over land appropriation is constructed. It is based on the Israeli experience of promoting solar energy in the Negev Desert, an area conceived as available to solar development. Through an analysis of protocols of Israeli policy-makers' meetings between 2002 and 2011, the study documents the ways in which players adopt securitized language concerning various land uses such as energy, food, ecology, and traditional (national) security. The study found that the use of securitized framing varies between uses, forums, actors, and sectors. Yet competition between securities discourses remained uneven as, in the Israeli context, many players find it difficult to challenge the hegemonic role of traditional (national) security.

Fischhendler, I., et al. (2015). "Communicating mega-projects in the face of uncertainties: Israeli mass media treatment of the Dead Sea Water Canal." Public Understanding of Science 24(7): 794-810.	Given the potential for uncertainties to influence mega-projects, this study examines how mega-projects are deliberated in the public arena. The paper traces the strategies used to promote the Dead Sea Water Canal. Findings show that the Dead Sea mega-project was encumbered by ample uncertainties. Treatment of uncertainties in early coverage was dominated by economics and raised primarily by politicians, while more contemporary media discourses have been dominated by ecological uncertainties voiced by environmental non-governmental organizations. This change in uncertainty type is explained by the changing nature of the project and by shifts in societal values over time. The study also reveals that uncertainty reduction' and to a lesser degree, project cancellation', are still the strategies most often used to address uncertainties. Statistical analysis indicates that although uncertainties and strategies are significantly correlated, there may be other intervening variables that affect this correlation. This research also therefore contributes to wider and ongoing considerations of uncertainty in the public arena through various media representational practices.

Fischhoff, B. (1995). "Risk Perception and Communication Unplugged - 20 Years of Process." Risk Analysis 15(2): 137-145.	Over the past twenty years, risk communication researchers and practitioners have learned some lessons, often at considerable personal price.  For the most part, the mistakes that they have made have been natural, even intelligent ones.  As a result, the same pitfalls may tempt newcomers to the field.  This essay offers a personal (even confessional) history of the field over this period.  It identifies a series of developmental stages.  Progress through the stages involves consolidating the skills needed to execute it and learning its limitations.  Knowing about their existence might speed the learning process and alert one to how much there still is to learn.

Fischhoff, B. (2014). "Four answers to four questions (about risk communication)." Journal of Risk Research 17(10): 1265-1267.
	
Fischhoff, B., et al. (2018). "Public Understanding of Ebola Risks: Mastering an Unfamiliar Threat." Risk Analysis 38(1): 71-83.	Ebola was the most widely followed news story in the United States in October 2014. Here, we ask what members of the U.S. public learned about the disease, given the often chaotic media environment. Early in 2015, we surveyed a representative sample of 3,447 U.S. residents about their Ebola-related beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors. Where possible, we elicited judgments in terms sufficiently precise to allow comparing them to scientific estimates (e.g., the death toll to date and the probability of dying once ill). Respondents' judgments were generally consistent with one another, with scientific knowledge, and with their self-reported behavioral responses and policy preferences. Thus, by the time the threat appeared to have subsided in the United States, members of the public, as a whole, had seemingly mastered its basic contours. Moreover, they could express their beliefs in quantitative terms. Judgments of personal risk were weakly and inconsistently related to reported gender, age, education, income, or political ideology. Better educated and wealthier respondents saw population risks as lower; females saw them as higher. More politically conservative respondents saw Ebola as more transmissible and expressed less support for public health policies. In general, respondents supported providing "honest, accurate information, even if that information worried people." These results suggest the value of proactive communications designed to inform the lay public's decisions, thoughts, and emotions, and informed by concurrent surveys of their responses and needs.

Fish, D., et al. (2017). "A cross-cultural comparison of high school students' responses to a science centre show on the physics of sound in South Africa." Public Understanding of Science 26(7): 806-814.	We report on the attitudes and ideas developed by students from three distinct school groups to a science show about sound. We addressed two research questions: (1) How do the students compare with respect to their (a) attitudes to the sound show and to science in general and (b) changes in conceptual understanding as a result of the show and (2) what changes could be made to the show, and to science shows in general, that would be sensitive to the cultural and language differences of the groups? These were addressed by multiple choice, pre- and post-tests comprising both attitudinal and conceptual questions. Our results pointed to a common enjoyment of the show but a different understanding of concepts and consequent learning, which suggest that science shows (and science teaching) need to be adjusted to accommodate different cultural groups for maximum impact.

Fisher, A. (1991). "Risk Communication Challenges." Risk Analysis 11(2): 173-179.
	
Fisher, A. and Y. C. Chen (1996). "Customer perceptions of agency risk communication." Risk Analysis 16(2): 177-184.	A government agency commissioned a baseline study of how its customers view the agency's risk information. The 70% response rate to a mail survey allows analysis by subgroups representing customers' primary interests. Although this agency traditionally has been responsible for ensuring plant and animal health at the farm gate (or where imported), responses emphasized emerging customer concerns about the environment and human health. Customers think many risk communication activities are important, but that the agency is not especially effective in conducting those activities. Customers are moderately satisfied with much of the risk information they receive, although many have little contact from or interaction with the agency. Customers identified other sources they use, which suggest potentially effective channels for this agency's risk messages. The study provides a baseline for measuring change in the agency's risk communication effectiveness. It also can be a model when other organizations plan their own risk communication evaluations.

Fisher, A., et al. (1994). "One Agency Use of Risk Assessment and Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 14(2): 207-212.	Few organizations have the courage to evaluate their own use of risk assessment (identifying hazards and estimating their probability and magnitude) and risk communication (interacting with internal and external stakeholder groups about risks). The USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) wants to enhance its overall risk analysis process for managing a wide range of risks to animals, plants, and human health. We gathered survey data for a baseline of APHIS professionals' understanding and use of risk assessment and risk communication. APHIS professionals spend a surprisingly large share of their time communicating about risks. They perceive that risk estimates influence decisions, but that risk estimates should have more influence. Respondents reported little opposition to APHIS risk management decisions, and little use of channels such as USDA Extension Service for disseminating risk messages. Substantial variance across responses is explained mostly by differences in the roles of the 11 work units (now 10) within the agency. Location also contributes to the variance. Demographic variables seem less important.

Fisher, D. (2008). "How mathematics happened: The first 50,000 years." Science Communication 29(3): 401-404.
	
Fisher, D. (2008). "The (Fabulous) fibonacci numbers." Science Communication 29(3): 401-404.
	
Fisher, J. A. and M. D. Cottingham (2017). "This isn't going to end well: Fictional representations of medical research in television and film." Public Understanding of Science 26(5): 564-578.	Fictional television shows and films convey cultural assumptions about scientists and the research enterprise. But how do these forms of entertainment portray medical research participants? We sampled 65 television shows and films released between 2004 and 2014 to determine the ways in which medical research and human participants are represented in popular media. We found that research participants are largely represented as White, male, and lower or working class and that 40% of the participants depicted in these fictional accounts were seeking financial compensation, 34% were hoping for a therapeutic benefit, and 15% were coerced into participation. Regardless of participant motivation, media representations tended to portray a negative outcome of medical research. Interpreting the themes in these media, we argue that these fictional portrayals might provide the public with valuable representations of medical research, especially in terms of risks to research participants, scientific failure, and researchers' conflicts of interest.

Fisher, M., et al. (2005). "What do individuals in different science groups within a life sciences organization think about genetic modification?" Public Understanding of Science 14(3): 317-326.	An assessment was undertaken of the attitudes of individuals within the science community towards a program to produce genetically modified cattle for altered milk composition, expectantly allowing for research into the treatment of multiple sclerosis in humans. The majority of respondents to an electronic survey expressed favorable attitudes to the program, thought it beneficial, respected individual freedom and was fair and just and disagreed that it was harmful. A passion for science and having a suitable lifestyle were the most important motivating factors for individuals. Finally, there were a wide range of responses to a number of cultural beliefs or myths. Science grouping significantly affected the responses. Compared with Systems and Land groups, Plant and Reproduction groups more strongly agreed with the project, thought it less harmful to interest groups, felt that genetic modification of animals was more morally acceptable, and more strongly agreed with the myth statements. These results indicate a diversity of beliefs and attitudes towards genetic modification amongst those within the science community, and highlight the importance of understanding ethics and myths in dealing with them. It is suggested that the diversity of beliefs could be better used to help shape public policy and understanding of biotechnology.

Fitzgerald, A., et al. (1997). "Commentary: Three perspectives on science exhibits in the Museum of Science and Industry, Franklin Institute, and National Zoo." Science Communication 19(1): 62-80.	In separate but related comments, each coauthor describes how controversial content is handled within a specific science exhibit or exhibits at the Museum of Science and Industry (Chicago, Illinois), (he Franklin Institute (Philadelphia; Pennsylvania), and the Smithsonian Institution's National Zoological Park (Washington, D.C). Together, the authors demonstrate how context, design, sponsorship, and politics increasingly influence science museum content and visitors' experiences.

Fleishman, L. A., et al. (2010). "Informed Public Preferences for Electricity Portfolios with CCS and Other Low-Carbon Technologies." Risk Analysis 30(9): 1399-1410.	Public perceptions of carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) and other low-carbon electricity-generating technologies may affect the feasibility of their widespread deployment. We asked a diverse sample of 60 participants recruited from community groups in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania to rank 10 technologies (e.g., coal with CCS, natural gas, nuclear, various renewables, and energy efficiency), and seven realistic low-carbon portfolios composed of these technologies, after receiving comprehensive and carefully balanced materials that explained the costs and benefits of each technology. Rankings were obtained in small group settings as well as individually before and after the group discussions. The ranking exercise asked participants to assume that the U.S. Congress had mandated a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from power plants to be built in the future. Overall, rankings suggest that participants favored energy efficiency, followed by nuclear power, integrated gasification combined-cycle coal with CCS and wind. The most preferred portfolio also included these technologies. We find that these informed members of the general public preferred diverse portfolios that contained CCS and nuclear over alternatives once they fully understood the benefits, cost, and limitations of each. The materials and approach developed for this study may also have value in educating members of the general public about the challenges of achieving a low-carbon energy future.

Fleming, C. and J. Goodall (2002). "Dangerous Darwinism." Public Understanding of Science 11(3): 259-271.	We are concerned with a particular rhetorical narrative that appeared in the early stages of the Darwin debate but that has been fiercely resurgent in the past two decades. Freud wrote of Darwin's theory as one of three major blows to which human vanity had been submitted at the hands of science. Assertions that "Darwin's dangerous idea" came as a horrible shock to the Victorians and that it is still a profound psychological threat, and therefore widely resisted, remain current.
When such assertions are offered as the premise on which Darwin is to be approached by the general reader, they call for some detailed scrutiny, with regard both to the bases on which they are made, and the effect they have on the terms of public debate. This paper offers a critique of the culture-shock myth based on a re-examination of Victorian reactions to Darwin's work, and on an analysis of the ways in which the myth functions as a rhetorical strategy in our own time.

Flemming, D., et al. (2017). "Processing the Scientific Tentativeness of Medical Research: An Experimental Study on the Effects of Research News and User Comments in Online Media." Science Communication 39(6): 745-770.	When people read medical research news on the Internet, they are confronted not only with information from the article itself but often also with comments written by other users about the article. Moreover, Internet users have the opportunity to write their own comments. In an experimental study we found that the actual scientific tentativeness of the research findings reported in a health news article as well as the empirical and the anecdotal evidence provided in other users' skeptical comments influenced how the participants perceived scientific tentativeness and, in turn, how much they addressed this tentativeness in their own comments.

Flicker, E. (2003). "Between brains and breasts - women scientists in fiction film: on the marginalization and sexualization of scientific competence." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 307-318.	The popular media, film, cinema and television, contribute to the public's general understanding of science. This article focuses on the portrayal of female scientists and the reception of such depictions within the general understanding. The article questions: the images depicted; their relation to scientific reality; how such depictions have changed over time (1929-1997); and their significance within the broader social context.

Flipse, S. M. and P. Osseweijer (2013). "Media attention to GM food cases: An innovation perspective." Public Understanding of Science 22(2): 185-202.	Media attention to genetically modified (GM) foods has been described as negative, especially in Europe. At the turn of the century appreciation of GM foods was at an all-time low in Europe. Food manufacturers are still careful in the use, development and communication of GM based food products, and their caution influences innovation processes. In this study we explore the link between media attention and innovation practice. Media attention to three specific high-profile GM food cases is described and linked to innovation practice. We elucidate the order of events in these cases and show that publics could only to a limited extent have formed an opinion on GM based food products based on scientifically valid data through written English media. Innovators in food biotechnology may benefit from this knowledge for future product development and marketing, and we suggest that innovation may benefit from early stakeholder involvement and communication activities.

Florin, M. V. (2013). "IRGC's approach to emerging risks." Journal of Risk Research 16(3-4): 315-322.	As a follow up to the development of the International Risk Governance Council (IRGC) risk governance framework with Prof. Ortwin Renn, IRGC has focused its attention on identifying commonly recurring deficits' in risk governance defined as deficiencies or failures in risk governance structures and processes and to understand their causes and how they can be prevented or mitigated through improved assessment, management and communication. This article summarises two recently published IRGC reports. It presents the concept of risk governance deficit and how it can be used. It gives a brief description of each deficit, grouped in two clusters, relating to risk assessment and to risk management. The article then presents the concept of contributing factors' related to how and why new risks emerge and provides a summary table of these factors. This approach can contribute to the development of effective systems to further improve existing industrial, environmental and workplace safety governance.

Flueler, T. (2001). "Options in radioactive waste management revisited: A proposed framework for robust decision making." Risk Analysis 21(4): 787-799.	Deregulation, with concurrent pressure on electricity utilities, has fundamentally changed the once-"closed" radioactive waste management system controlled by the so-called "nuclear establishment." Advocacy coalitions may change-who knows in which direction-but policy learning may also take place. This article presents a framework to evaluate the management options for a specified concept of "sustainability." When weighing the different objectives in view of the long-lasting potential danger of radiotoxic substances, the overall goal of a sound waste management system is to demonstrate safety. The first-priority objective of a disposal system, therefore, is its stability so that it can comply with the protection goal, that is, the long-term protection of humans and the environment from ionizing radiation. The complementary objective is flexibility, defined here as intervention potential. Because trade-offs within the "sustainability triangle" of ecology, economy, and society are unavoidable, the concept of "integral robustness "-both technical and societal-is introduced into radioactive waste management. A system is robust if it is not sensitive to significant parameter changes. In the present case, it has to have a conservative, passively stable design with built-in control and intervention mechanisms. With regard to technical implementation, a concept called,'monitored long-term geological disposal" is presented. Such an "extended" final disposal concept emphasizes technical robustness, recognizes evaluation demands (for a potential break-off of a project), and enhances process-based transparency. This open approach admittedly sets high challenges with regard to technicalities as well as the institutional setting and the management process. It requires "mutual learning" by and from all stakeholders to achieve a truly sustainable radioactive waste management system.

Flusberg, S. J., et al. (2017). "Metaphors for the War (or Race) against Climate Change." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 769-783.	Despite overwhelming scientific consensus, millions of Americans fail to view climate change as a pressing threat. How can we address this disconnect between science and public opinion? In the present study, we investigated the role of metaphorical framing in shaping attitudes toward climate change. Participants read a brief article that metaphorically described US efforts to reduce carbon emissions as a war or race against climate change, or non-metaphorically described it as the issue of climate change. We further manipulated whether these emission-reduction goals emphasized the relatively near or distant future. We found that, compared to the race frame, the war metaphor made people perceive more urgency and risk surrounding climate change and express a greater willingness to increase conservation behavior, irrespective of the time horizon. Those who read the non-metaphorical report tended to respond in between these two extremes. We discuss the implications of these findings for climate communications.

Flynn, J., et al. (1993). "The Nevada Initiative - a Risk Communication Fiasco." Risk Analysis 13(5): 497-502.	The U.S. Congress has designated Yucca Mountain, Nevada as the only potential site to be studied for the nation's first high-level nuclear waste repository. People in Nevada strongly oppose the program, managed by the U.S. Department of Energy. Survey research shows that the public believes there are great risks from a repository program, in contrast to a majority of scientists who feel the risks are acceptably small. Delays in the repository program resulting in part from public opposition in Nevada have concerned the nuclear power industry, which collects the fees for the federal repository program and believes it needs the repository as a final disposal facility for its high-level nuclear wastes. To assist the repository program, the American Nuclear Energy Council (ANEC), an industry group, sponsored a massive advertising campaign in Nevada. The campaign attempted to assure people that the risks of a repository were small and that the repository studies should proceed. The campaign failed because its managers misunderstood the issues underlying the controversy, attempted a covert manipulation of public opinion that was revealed, and most importantly, lacked the public trust that was necessary to communicate credibly about the risks of a nuclear waste facility.

Flynn, R., et al. (2012). "Ambiguity, complexity and uncertainty surrounding the hazards of hydrogen and public views of emergent risks." Journal of Risk Research 15(4): 373-387.	New technologies and emergent risks pose special problems for risk governance and regulation. This paper outlines some of the uncertainties about the hazards of hydrogen energy and examines qualitative evidence from recent deliberative Citizens' Panels in England and Wales about hydrogen energy technologies. It is shown that laypeople express ambivalent and contradictory views about, and critical trust in, experts' views about hydrogen. The findings are discussed in relation to the International Risk Governance Council framework for emergent risks characterised by ambiguity, complexity and uncertainty.

Fochler, M. (2018). "Reordering life: Knowledge and control in the genomics revolution." Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 1012-1013.
	
Fogg-Rogers, L., et al. (2015). ""Knowledge Is Power": A Mixed-Methods Study Exploring Adult Audience Preferences for Engagement and Learning Formats Over 3 Years of a Health Science Festival." Science Communication 37(4): 419-451.	Science festivals enable scientists to engage with publics, but format design reflecting different engagement models is contested. This study gathered mixed-methods data over 3 years (2011-2013) from on-site surveys (N = 661) of a health science festival, exploring audience preferences for dissemination or dialogue formats (lectures, discussions, community expo, lab experiments, and day out). Irrespective of time, age-group, or gender, lectures were significantly ranked the main attraction (76.8%), most highly attended (89.1%), and most useful format (83.8%). Thematic analysis revealed five themes exploring nonformal learning motivations for audiences, highlighting that knowledge/understanding acquisition is perceived as empowering greater health literacy.

Fogg-Rogers, L., et al. (2017). ""Robots Vs Animals": Establishing a Culture of Public Engagement and Female Role Modeling in Engineering Higher Education." Science Communication 39(2): 195-220.	A widespread culture supporting public engagement activities in higher education is desirable but difficult to establish. Drawing on social cognitive theory, this science communication project aimed to enhance culture change in engineering by developing communication skillsets of early-career engineers, particularly supporting female engineers as role models. Engineers received training in storytelling to present at live events, enhanced by peer group social persuasion and vicarious modeling. A science communication coordinator and senior management endorsement removed barriers to participation. Evaluation showed engineers' self-efficacy levels significantly increased. Qualitative data highlighted a developing culture of engagement but purposive selection of women proved controversial.

Forchtner, B., et al. (2018). "Being Skeptical? Exploring Far-Right Climate-Change Communication in Germany." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(5): 589-604.	This article explores climate-change communication by the German far right - spanning a continuum which ranges from anti-liberal democracy radical-right populists, to the extreme right and to anti-democratic neo-Nazis - and asks: how do these actors articulate the phenomenon of climate change? In responding to this question, we conduct a discourse network analysis which identifies relations between actors, objects, phenomena, and processes, and points out differences/similarities across a continuum of exemplary far-right sources. The investigated actors put forward a rather skeptical climate change narrative, even though differences exist as the significance attached to the Volk and its sovereignty, rooted in far-right ideology, sometimes overrides, and sometimes is in harmony with, their ideological-driven affinity with nature protection. We thus contribute to the growing body of knowledge on climate-change communication and, more specifically, on the link between ideology and climate-change skepticism.

Foreman, C. H. (1995). "Witchcraft Science in the Cinema of Epidemics - Comment." Science Communication 17(1): 3-8.	Films about infectious disease epidemics regularly pretend to present science at work but ironically traffic in ifs near opposite-a kind of ''witchcraft science. '' Although Hollywood can hardly be expected to cease the practice, such films present an opportunity for science to explain its true character and capabilities to a wider audience and deserve closer attention from scientists and members of the science policy community.

Foreman, C. H. (1998). "Blended rationality and democracy - An elusive synthesis for environmental policy reform." Science Communication 20(1): 56-61.	Environmental policy reform has proceeded along two parallel backs: a rationalizing perspective and a democratizing one. Efforts to blend the two (including the attempt by "environmentalist-in-chief" Al Gore in his book Earth in the Balance) have often been awkward and unpersuasive. As the new century dawns, Science Communication might help pursue a reconciliation.

Forlini, C. and E. Racine (2012). "Stakeholder perspectives and reactions to "academic" cognitive enhancement: Unsuspected meaning of ambivalence and analogies." Public Understanding of Science 21(5): 606-625.	The existence of diverging discourses in the media and academia on the use of prescription medications to improve cognition in healthy individuals, i.e. "cognitive enhancement" (CE) creates the need to better understand perspectives from stakeholders. This qualitative focus-group study examined perspectives from students, parents and healthcare providers on CE. Stakeholders expressed ambivalence regarding CE (i.e. reactions to, definitions of, risks, and benefits). They were reluctant to adopt analogies to performance-enhancing steroids and caffeine though these analogies were useful in discussing concepts common to the use of different performance-enhancing substances. Media coverage of CE was criticized for lack of scientific rigor, ethical clarity, and inadvertent promotion of CE. Ambivalence of stakeholders suggests fundamental discomfort with economic and social driving forces of CE. Forms of public dialogue that voice the unease and ambivalence of stakeholders should be pursued to avoid opting hastily for permissive or restrictive health policies for CE.

Forrester, J. (2001). "Real science: What it is, and what it means." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 145-146.
	
Foster, C., et al. (2014). "National Conversations About the Costs of US Health Care: A Content Analysis of Media Coverage, 1993-2010." Science Communication 36(5): 519-543.	This study evaluated 531 newspaper articles and television transcripts to examine how the U. S. media presented the issue of rising health care costs from 1993 to 2010. The prominence of health care coverage, the expert sources, and the presentation of the causes of rising health care costs were assessed. Results suggest that the president influenced health care news coverage, while expert sources quoted in the reports influenced how the causes of rising health care cost were presented. Findings contribute to the growing body of academic literature on agenda building theory and provide insights for health care reform advocates interested in maximizing their media advocacy efforts.

Foust, C. R. (2011). "Considering the Prospects of Immediate Resistance in Food Politics: Reflections on The Garden." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(3): 350-355.	In this essay, I offer reflections inspired by The Garden, a compelling film documenting the failed struggle of the South Central Farmers to maintain a lush 14-acre farm within an industrial, impoverished neighborhood of Los Angeles. I concentrate on diverse representations of resistance featured in the film, which range from the traditionally mediated to more immediate or material-rhetorical acts. Taking the lead of the South Central Farmers, I conclude that we (as scholars, teachers, and ethical people) may combat the corporate food system with a multifarious approach to social change.

Foust, C. R. and W. O. Murphy (2009). "Revealing and Reframing Apocalyptic Tragedy in Global Warming Discourse." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(2): 151-167.	Through a critical rhetorical analysis of US elite and popular press coverage of global warming, this essay explores the structuring presence and implications of apocalyptic framing. We found that the hallmarks of apocalyptic rhetoric-a linear temporality emphasizing a catastrophic end-point that is more or less outside the purview of human agency-permeate selected discourse. Two variants of the apocalyptic frame impact human agency: tragic apocalypse constitutes global warming as a matter of cosmic Fate; and comic apocalypse suggests that mistaken humans have a capacity to influence (within limits) the global warming narrative's end. We conclude with suggestions for structuring climate change communication in ways that enable more members of the public to become active advocates for, and participants in, mitigating global warming.

Fowler, G. L. (1999). "Guest Editorial: The Human Genome Project - what's the public got to do with it?" Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 153-159.
	
Fox, R. L. and J. J. Frye (2010). "Tensions of Praxis: A New Taxonomy for Social Movements." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(4): 422-440.	This essay introduces and illustrates tensions of praxis that humans involved in activism face so that thought-action translation can occur more reflexively. Because social movements face unique challenges in effecting social change (Simons, 1970; Stewart, Smith, Denton, 2007) the tensions of praxis are especially important for this type of social change agency. Therefore, this essay situates itself within discussions of environmental social movements and begins with a brief introduction of praxis as a theoretical and practical concern. Then, in order to illuminate the tensions of praxis, the following tensions are identified, explained, and illustrated: (1) this world or that world; (2) activity or inactivity; and (3) means and ends. Throughout the essay, primary data from a 2009 interview with Julia Butterfly Hill are used to illustrate these tensions. The essay concludes with theoretical and practical significance of the tensions of praxis and suggests directions for future research.

Fradkin, C. (2017). "Scientific Publication for Nonnative English Speakers: A Retrospective of a Workshop in Brazil." Science Communication 39(3): 395-403.	While English is the language of science, for many scientists it is a foreign language. Such is the case in South America, where Portuguese and Spanish are spoken. In this commentary, the author shares the experience of presenting a workshop on English-Language Publication for Nonnative English Speakers, at a scientific conference in Brazil. Issues of translation and lost science are addressed. For the author, this experience raised awareness of the challenges nonnative English scholars have in disseminating their science to an English-language market. Recommendations are offered, with the hopes of building bridges to connect the lingua franca and the non-English-speaking worlds.

Francis, L. J. and J. E. Greer (1999). "Attitudes towards creationism and evolutionary theory: the debate among secondary pupils attending Catholic and Protestant schools in Northern Ireland." Public Understanding of Science 8(2): 93-103.	A sample of 2129 pupils in the third through sixth years of Protestant and Catholic grammar schools in Northern Ireland completed an index concerned with attitudes towards creationism and evolutionary theory. The data demonstrate that among this age group in Northern Ireland, 48 percent accept the view that "God created the world as described in the Bible" while 33 percent accept the view that "Science disproves the biblical account of creation." Support for creationism is stronger among girls than boys, among Protestants than Catholics, and among third and fourth year students than fifth and sixth year students. The results have implications for understanding the conflict between science and religion and for both science educators and religious educators.

Frankel, M. S. (1999). "Genetic privacy, discrimination, and the US Congress." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 215-222.	Advances in genetics research have fueled public debate over the use of genetic information about individuals and families by health insurers. Fears of discrimination based on one's genetic inheritance have prompted various private and public sector groups to press for restrictions on access to and use of genetic information in health insurance decisions. As a result, the U.S. Congress has considered several pieces of legislation that would impose such restrictions. This paper discusses the merging of several factors that are responsible for placing and maintaining this issue on the congressional policy agenda.

Frankel, M. S., et al. (2000). "Report: Excerpts from "Defining and certifying electronic publication in science" - A proposal to the international association of scientific, technical and medical publishers." Science Communication 22(1): 88-94.	At the request of the International Association of Scientific, Technical and Medical Publishers, an international working group prepared a paper on what constitutes publication in science in the electronic environment. The excerpts below address the importance of defining publication in science, the distinctions between first publication and definitive publication, the challenges inherent in this publication process, and the necessity of preserving the bibliographic record.

Franklin, S. (1998). "The embryo research debate: Science and the politics of reproduction." Public Understanding of Science 7(3): 255-256.
	
Franzen, M. (2018). "Research Field of Science Communication." Public Understanding of Science 27(6): 753-754.
	
Fraser-Mackenzie, P., et al. (2014). "Toward an Understanding of the Influence of Cultural Background and Domain Experience on the Effects of Risk-Pricing Formats on Risk Perception." Risk Analysis 34(10): 1846-1869.	Risk-information framing can be a powerful tool for aiding the communication of risk and improving decision making. However, little work has investigated the extent that these framing effects depend on the characteristics of the perceiver. In our study, we examine whether the effects of different risk-pricing formats on risky choices are the same for all individuals, no matter their domain experience or cultural background, or whether there are interactions between these factors. Survey 1 revealed that three risk-pricing formats of the same choice problem resulted in the same individuals making different risky choices (preference reversal), suggesting that risk perception was distorted by the risk-pricing format manipulation. In Survey 2, the effects of the risk-pricing formats were shown to differ by the participants' cultural background (Asian vs. European) and the extent of their domain experience. The fact that there were no differences between the cultural or domain experience groups in their overall tendency to select riskier (cf. safer) choices indicates that risk behavior differences between groups are often closely linked to perceptual, rather than simply attitudinal, cognitive processes. The results demonstrate the complex, interactive cognitive processes that are used to encode risk information, involving the framing of the information and the cultural background and previous experiences of the individual. We conclude that it is important to consider the characteristics of the individual (e. g., culture, domain experience, etc.) when manipulating risk-information framing with the aim of improving risk communication.

Freeman, C. P. (2010). "Meat's Place on the Campaign Menu: How US Environmental Discourse Negotiates Vegetarianism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(3): 255-276.	Given the impact of America's food choices, particularly animal-based foods, on life-sustaining systems, to what extent is the environmental movement making meat-based diets an issue? This research analyzes websites of 15 US environmental advocacy organizations (EOs) to examine how they negotiate the question of animal versus plant-based diets and propose solutions for food producers and consumers. EOs proposed that industrial agriculture and commercial fishing/aquaculture severely limit destructive practices to more sustainably meet consumer demand for animal products. EOs offered consumers choices, including: (1) replacement of much industrial food with local, organic, and/or sustainable animal or plant foods, (2) reduction of animal products, and, to a lesser degree, (3) vegetarianism. To consistently promote justice for all animals, the author recommends environmental discourse more explicitly critique animal agriculture/fishing as a primary source of environmental problems, consider food needs not just preferences, and promote fundamental changes toward a plant-based, largely organic diet.

Freudenburg, W. R., et al. (1996). "Media coverage of hazard events: Analyzing the assumptions." Risk Analysis 16(1): 31-42.	Despite the widespread conviction that the mass media tend to ''blow risks out of proportion,'' the question has received little systematic attention. The mass-media literature also presents the opposite argument, namely that the media minimize the kinds of reporting that might upset large-scale capitalistic industries. Still other perspectives hold, on the one hand, that media reports tend to have more subtle anti-technology effects, created by ''even-handed'' coverage and on the other hand, that reporters give ''establishment'' figures the opportunity to ''keynote'' or ''put the facts in perspective'' in ways that exert a subtly pro-technology effect. Drawing on a systematic sample of 128 hazard events developed by researchers at another university and factually summarized by LEXIS-NEXIS, we analyze the effects of emotionalism on actual levels of coverage; a variety of analyses show that the only variables to exert significant effects are those that involve objective information, such as the number of casualties or the level of damage created. Given the argument that the effects of emotionalism can be conveyed in ways that are largely independent of the facts, e.g., by headlines, photographs, and ''loaded'' words, we next compare the emotionalism conveyed by factual summaries vs. the original stories and headlines. Even for incidents involving nuclear and/or toxic hazards, we find the net effect of the full stories is to lessen the emotionalism. Overall, the hypothesis receiving strongest support is that the ''keynoting'' helps create an overall impression that the ''responsible authorities'' are acting more responsibly than might be assumed on the basis of factual summaries alone. The widespread impression within the technical community, while understandable, may well have as much to do with the selective perceptions of scientists and engineers as with the actual pattern of media reporting.

Freudenburg, W. R. and J. A. Rursch (1994). "The Risks of Putting the Numbers in Context - a Cautionary Tale." Risk Analysis 14(6): 949-958.	Despite the warnings of risk communication specialists, members of the technical community often urge that technological risks should be ''put in context'' by comparisons against risks that are more familiar.  Little quantitative evidence is available on the actual behavioral consequences of such risk comparison efforts.  In the present study, subjects were presented with two types of information about a hazardous waste incinerator-a simplified statistical summary and a comparison of incinerator risks against the risks of smoking.  Statistical information led to a modest increase in the reported willingness to vote in favor of the incinerator in a community referendum, but the comparison against cigarettes led to a slight decrease in support; the difference between the two messages is statistically significant (p < .001).  In combination with other results, this study's findings suggest that an implicit assumption of risk comparisons is in error:  Opposition to controversial technologies may have little to do with citizen's levels of information about technology, having more to do with citizen's levels of trust in governmental and industrial actors.

Frewer, L. J., et al. (1996). "What determines trust in information about food-related risks? Underlying psychological constructs." Risk Analysis 16(4): 473-486.	Trust in risk information about food related-hazards may be an important determinant of public reactions to risk information. One of the central questions addressed by the risk communication literature is why some individuals and organizations are trusted as sources of risk information and others are not. Industry and government often lack public trust, whereas other sources (for example, consumer organizations, the quality media, medical doctors) are highly trusted. Problematically, previous surveys and questionnaire studies have utilized questions generated by the investigators themselves to assess public perceptions of trust in different sources. Furthermore, no account of the hazard domain was made. In the first study reported here, semistructured interviewing was used to elicit underpinning constructs determining trust and distrust in different sources providing food-related risk information (n = 35). In the second study, the repertory grid method was used to elicit the terminology that respondents use to distinguish between different potential food-related information sources (n = 35), the data being submitted to generalised Procrustes analysis. The results of the two studies were combined and validated in survey research (n = 888) where factor analysis indicated that knowledge in itself does not lead to trust, but that trusted sources are seen to be characterised by multiple positive attributes. Contrary to previous research, complete freedom does not lead to trust-rather sources which possess moderate accountability are seen to be the most trusted.

Frewer, L. J., et al. (1997). "The elaboration likelihood model and communication about food risks." Risk Analysis 17(6): 759-770.	Factors such as hazard type and source credibility have been identified as important in the establishment of effective strategies for risk communication. The elaboration likelihood model was adapted to investigate the potential impact of hazard type, information source, and persuasive content of information on individual engagement in elaborative, or thoughtful, cognitions about risk messages. One hundred sixty respondents were allocated to one of eight experimental groups, and the effects of source credibility, persuasive content of information and hazard type were systematically varied. The impact of the different factors on beliefs about the information and elaborative processing examined. Low credibility was particularly important in reducing risk perceptions, although persuasive content and hazard type were also influential in determining whether elaborative processing occurred.

Frewer, L. J., et al. (1998). "Methodological approaches to assessing risk perceptions associated with food-related hazards." Risk Analysis 18(1): 95-102.	The psychometric approach developed by Slovic and his co-workers has been effectively used to assess risk perceptions associated with different food-related hazards. However, further examination (using questionnaire data and partial correlation techniques) has indicated that technological hazards are highly differentiated from lifestyle hazards, in terms of both hazard control and knowledge about the hazard. Optimistic bias was also seen to vary between hazards. Further research has focused on a particular hazard, genetic engineering. Risk perceptions associated with genetic engineering are underpinned by ethical concern and questions relating to perceived need for the technology, as well as perceptions of risk or harm. However, increasing the specificity of hazard stimuli was found to alter the factor structure of underlying risk perceptions. The utility of preference mapping procedures in determining individual differences in trust in risk regulators is also discussed.

Frewer, L. J., et al. (1999). "Reactions to information about genetic engineering: impact of source characteristics, perceived personal relevance, and persuasiveness." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 35-50.	There is a need to develop effective communication strategies with the public about the risks and benefits of applied genetic engineering. The Elaboration Likelihood Model was used to systematically investigate the impact of source factors (trust) and the perceived personal relevance of information, including the persuasiveness of the information, on attitudes towards genetic engineering, and whether these factors resulted in more thoughts about genetic engineering. The results from 160 respondents indicated an interaction between source effects and persuasiveness. People tended to respond more to information low in persuasiveness if it was attributed to a highly trusted source, and more to information high in persuasiveness if it were from a source low in public trust. In this context, respondents tended to express concern about the technology. It was concluded that source characteristics are important determinants of public responses to information about genetic engineering.

Frewer, L. J., et al. (2003). "The views of scientific experts on how the public conceptualize uncertainty." Journal of Risk Research 6(1): 75-85.	Scientific experts (drawn from scientific institutions, universities, industry, and government) were interviewed about how they thought the general public might handle information about uncertainty associated with risk analysis. It was found that, for many people within the scientific community, there was a widespread belief that the general public were unable to conceptualize uncertainties associated with risk management processes. Many scientists thought that providing the public with information about uncertainty would increase distrust in science and scientific institutions, as well as cause panic and confusion regarding the extent and impact of a particular hazard. It was concluded that scientists still appear to be subscribing to the deficit model of science communication, and it is vital that effective mechanisms for communicating about risk uncertainty with the public must be developed as a matter of urgency, particularly as increased transparency in risk management processes means that scientific uncertainties associated with risk analysis become more likely to be the subject of public scrutiny and debate.

Frewer, L. J., et al. (2002). "Public preferences for informed choice under conditions of risk uncertainty." Public Understanding of Science 11(4): 363-372.	It has been assumed that the general public is unable to conceptualize information about risk uncertainties, and so communication about food risk has tended to avoid this type of information. However, recent societal and political pressure to increase transparency in risk management practices will result in the uncertainties inherent in risk analysis becoming subject to public scrutiny. Best practice regarding risk communication must address how to communicate risk uncertainty. A questionnaire was developed that aimed to assess how the general public characterized uncertainty associated with food risks. The results indicated that people wanted to be provided with information about food risk uncertainty as soon as the uncertainty was identified. People were more accepting of uncertainty associated With the scientific process of risk management than they were of uncertainty due to lack of action or lack of interest on the part of the government. The findings indicate that the focus of risk communication should be on "what is being done to reduce the uncertainty." Recommendations are made regarding best practice for communicating risk uncertainty.

Frewer, L. J., et al. (2003). "Communicating about the risks and benefits of genetically modified foods: The mediating role of trust." Risk Analysis 23(6): 1117-1133.	Recent research suggests that public attitudes toward emerging technologies are mainly driven by trust in the institutions promoting and regulating these technologies. Alternative views maintain that trust should be seen as a consequence rather than a cause of such attitudes. To test its actual role, direct as well as mediating effects of trust were tested in an attitude change experiment involving 1,405 consumers from Denmark, Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom. After prior attitudes to genetic modification in food production had been assessed, participants received different information materials (either product-specific information or balanced/general information about genetic modification in food production) and were asked to evaluate different types of genetically modified foods (either beer or yoghurt). The information materials were attributed to different information sources (either an industry association, a consumer organization, or a government source). After completion, perceived risk and perceived benefit were assessed, and participants indicated their trust in the information sources to which the materials had been attributed. Direct and trust-mediated attitude change effects were estimated in a multi-sample structural equation model. The results showed that information provision had little effect on people's attitudes toward genetically modified foods, and that perceptions of information source characteristics contributed very little to attitude change. Furthermore, the type of information strategy adopted had almost no impact on post-experimental attitudes. The extent to which people trusted the information sources appeared to be driven by people's attitudes to genetically modified foods, rather than trust influencing the way that people reacted to the information. Trust was not driving risk perception-rather, attitudes were informing perceptions of the motivation of the source providing the information.

Fuchslin, T., et al. (2018). "A Short Survey Instrument to Segment Populations According to Their Attitudes Toward Science. Scale Development, Optimization and Assessment." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(8): 1095-1108.	Surveys play a key role in researching public perceptions of and attitudes toward science. Accordingly, there is a breadth of often-used survey instruments available which have also been adopted for segmentation analyses. Even though many of these segmentation solutions are similar in their aims, they often include a large numbers of variables, making it more difficult for other researchers to build on these solutions, as survey time is scarce. Therefore, we demonstrate how a large number of variables that were used for a comprehensive segmentation analysis can be reduced considerably without losing too much information. We develop and test a short survey instrument to segment populations according to their attitudes toward science. Results show that segmentation results can be replicated with over 90% accuracy by reducing the instrument from 20 to 10 variables. This reduction does not significantly affect the predictive power of segment attribution on three dependent variables, which suggests that many segmentation analyses could be similarly optimized, helping researchers save survey time and standardize segmentation analyses more.

Fuller, S. (1999). "What is this thing called science?, 3rd edition." Public Understanding of Science 8(2): 145-146.
	
Fung, T. K. F., et al. (2018). "Testing Links Among Uncertainty, Affect, and Attitude Toward a Health Behavior." Science Communication 40(1): 33-62.	This study examines the conceptual linkages between individuals' uncertainty judgments and affective reactions (worry and anger) within the context of an environmental health risk. It uses data from a longitudinal study of people's reactions to the risks of eating contaminated fish from the Great Lakes that employed the risk information seeking and processing model and incorporates a set of variables from the full model, which includes preventive behavior. Findings support the model and indicate that worry and anger strongly influenced uncertainty judgments but worry and anger influenced attitudes toward fish avoidance and information insufficiency differently.

Gage, H., et al. (2013). "Health effects of infant feeding: Information for parents in leaflets and magazines in five European countries." Public Understanding of Science 22(3): 365-379.	Parents' decisions about whether to breastfeed their infant, and when to introduce complementary foods, are important public health issues. Breastfeeding has beneficial health effects and is widely promoted. Leaflets and magazine articles on infant feeding were collected in 2005, in five European countries (England, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Spain), and screened for statements that link feeding behaviours to infant health outcomes. A total of 127 leaflets contained 512 statements (0.38/published page). Magazines contained approximately 1 article/month. Health outcomes were more intensively covered in England and Germany. Most statements referred to short term health implications. Lack of scientific agreement may underlie lack of cover of longer term health effects. Scope may exist to promote improved infant feeding practices by increasing the quantity and specificity of messages about health effects. Further research is required to evaluate the impact of alternative means of providing information on infant feeding practices.

Gaillard, A. M. and J. Gaillard (1998). "The international circulation of scientists and technologists - A win-lose or win-win situation?" Science Communication 20(1): 106-115.	The dramatic contrasts in opinion about the effects of international scientific migration are traced to its intrinsic character as a polymorphic, recurrent phenomenon whose costs and benefits have never been successfully evaluated The tendency to assign countries the status of "winner" or "loser" in migration patterns is shown to be of dubious usefulness in an era of changing economic paradigms and increased interconnection of scientists via electronic communication networks. Nevertheless, those countries with neither improving economies nor easy and inexpensive network connections may still find themselves at a disadvantage in the global flow of scientific talent.

Galyani-Moghaddam, G. and E. Momeni (2014). "Scholarly Communication in Iran: An Overview." Science Communication 36(6): 811-820.	Scholarly communication is shaped in a social context everywhere; therefore, it may be affected by many factors, and it does not form in the same pattern in all parts of the world. While the primary nature and function of scholarly communication has remained unchanged for centuries, it differs by culture, countries, religion, attitude, and social context. The purpose of the article is to review how scholarly communication is being shaped in Iran. The article highlights the differences between scholarly communication in Iran and in Western countries by considering the relevant historical, religious, cultural, social, and political factors and their impact on scholarly communication.

Gamble, J. and E. Kassardjian (2008). "The use of selected community groups to elicit and understand the values underlying attitudes towards biotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 17(2): 245-259.	Focus groups were used to examine the social, cultural and spiritual dimensions of biotechnology through an analysis of five selected community groups (total n = 68): scientists, Buddhists, business people, mothers with young children and the environmentally active. Participants from all groups were united in their perspective on three of the value spheres explored: health and welfare of family/society; maintaining/preserving the environment; and ethical considerations (e.g. welfare of animals, sanctity of life). However, values regarding science and business differentiated scientists and business people from the remaining community segments. Business people were more likely to adhere to "productionism," resulting in a greater acceptance of biotechnology, since business people did not hold the same resentment toward the business sphere held by other community segments. Scientists were far more accepting of the norms and values inherent in the sphere of science, believing science to be more predictable and controllable than general public perceptions. The disparity in worldviews for this value sphere meant scientists and laypeople did not communicate at the same level, in spite of having the same concerns for health and the environment. This resulted in feelings of frustration and powerlessness on the part of the layperson and the scientist.

Gamble, J. C. (2009). "Guardians of our future: New Zealand mothers and sustainable biotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 18(2): 189-198.	In year two of a three-year project, yew Zealand mothers of children aged 10 and under were interviewed to examine the social, cultural and spiritual dimensions of biotechnology. Ten focus groups were conducted and used "sustainable biotechnology" as a center-point for discussion, concentrating on four different biotechnology scenarios. The findings of the research were consistent with year one and with findings on the general public throughout the world. Further insights revealed in year two suggested that women saw their and future generations' quality of life as intimately intertwined with the health of the environment, making the environment particularly important. Because of this, anything that had potentially negative consequences on the ecosystem was perceived to pose a threat to the woman, her family and future generations. The need for strict controls to be put in place by regulatory and research authorities was therefore seen as an important step in allaying her fears. True partnership and participation was seen as critical, since it would only be by such means that mothers would feel they were in control of the safety of their own children.

Gamero, N., et al. (2011). "Institutional dimensions underlying public trust in information on technological risk." Journal of Risk Research 14(6): 685-702.	This paper examines the determinants of trust in public information on technological risk in a petrochemical complex located in Tarragona (Spain). Data from focus groups (eight) and a questionnaire survey (N = 400) are drawn together to analyse how two local communities exposed to major chemical hazards perceive information on risk and its sources. Results show how trust relies on two main factors, namely expertise and trustworthiness, that are significantly influenced by a third one, antagonism. Results also illustrate the relevance of the institutional context when understanding how communities give meaning to the available information on risk.

Gardiner, A., et al. (2018). "Who Are You Writing for? Differences in Response to Blog Design Between Scientists and Nonscientists." Science Communication 40(1): 109-123.	Science blogs have been advocated as potential mediators between science and nonscientist readers; however, they are mostly read by other scientists, with little research on how blogs can be made more appealing for nonscientists. We compared four possible treatments of a science blog post (text-only, humor, images and video). Nonscientists recalled more information when images were included compared to humor, while scientists performed worse with text-only than with video. Nonscientists enjoyed the images treatment most, while scientists preferred the video treatment. Adding images to blog posts is recommended as an easy method of increasing recall and enjoyment among readers.

Garland, M. J. (1999). "Experts and the public: a needed partnership for genetic policy." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 241-254.	Scientists are wary of public participation in policy that influences the work of scientific discovery and technological appIication. In the area of genetic science this is particularly troublesome. The science and its applications are extremely complex. How the public can play a part in guiding the process is not clear. Yet genetic possibilities affect individuals and social groups intimately and the exercise of social responsibility for policies is imperative. A solution lies in effective partnership between scientific experts and the general public within the framework of representative democracy Goals of education, information transfer, and community building point to methods for public participation. The community meeting approach used in the development of health care priorities in Oregon is highlighted. Obstacles to participation come from our weak sense of community, widespread political alienation, endemic cynicism, and problems of social voice.

Garte, S. J. (1990). "Communication of Relative Carcinogenic Risks - a Quantitative Approach." Risk Analysis 10(4): 467-468.
	
Garvey, J. and P. Buckley (2010). "Implementing control mutuality using prediction markets: a new mechanism for risk communication." Journal of Risk Research 13(7): 951-960.	In this article prediction markets are presented as an innovative technology that can facilitate effective risk communication. The application of prediction markets in this context is an opportunity to reconcile the disparate approaches currently discussed in the risk communication literature. We demonstrate that control mutuality is uniquely achieved through the use of the prediction market mechanism and it is thus an innovative and in some cases optimal technology for use in risk communication in both public and private sector organisations.

Garvin, T. (2001). "Analytical paradigms: The epistemological distances between scientists, policy makers, and the public." Risk Analysis 21(3): 443-455.	The effective use of evidence and its resultant knowledge is increasingly recognized as critical in risk analysis. This, in turn, has led to a growing concern over issues of epistemology in risk communication, and, in particular, interest in how knowledge is constructed and employed by the key players in risk-scientists, policy makers, and the public. This article uses a critical theoretical approach to explore how evidence is recognized and validated, and how limits are placed on knowledge by scientists, policy makers, and the public. It brings together developments in the sociology of science, policy and policy development, public understandings of science, and risk communication and analysis to explicate the differing forms of rationality employed by each group. The work concludes that each group employs different, although equally legitimate, forms of rationality when evaluating evidence and generating knowledge around risky environment and health issues. Scientists, policy makers, and the public employ scientific, political, and social rationality, respectively. These differing forms of rationality reflect underlying epistemological distances from which can develop considerable misunderstandings and misinterpretations.

Gascoigne, T. (2008). "Climate change - "The" issue in the Australian national election 2007?" Science Communication 29(4): 522-531.	The Australian national election at the end of 2007 replaced a decade-long conservative government with a new, socially progressive government by a comfortable nationwide margin. This election has been widely reported as hinging on the progressive party's ability to successfully communicate about global climate change issues, and has even been heralded as the first national election campaign in recent history to turn on a scientific topic. However, analysis of the rhetoric used in the campaign cycle suggests that while climate change was the defining issue in this national campaign, in reality it served as a proxy for perceptions that the conservative government held closely to outdated ideas and ideologies in the face of new and emerging information. Climate change, which had previously not registered as a voter concern, worked as an analogy because Australia was experiencing its worst drought in 100 years.

Gascoigne, T. and J. Metcalfe (1997). "Incentives and impediments to scientists communicating through the media." Science Communication 18(3): 265-282.	This article examines the factors that encourage or discourage scientists to communicate their work through the media. A survey of Australian scientists found that they believed that media coverage of their work had significant benefits but that their research organizations offered them little support and often greeted their efforts with indifference. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the position is not very different in other countries. This study discusses a number of implications for managers of publicly funded research institutions and indicates changes they may consider to both the practices and the culture of their organizations.

Gascoigne, T. and J. Metcalfe (2001). "Report: The evaluation of national programs of science awareness." Science Communication 23(1): 66-76.	Most countries have national programs to increase the public awareness and understanding of science. The assumption behind these programs is that a scientifically literate population will ultimately lead to a healthy and economically prosperous country. How do we know if these programs achieve their aims? Are they evaluated, and if so, what methods are used? This report looks at the way the Australian Science and Technology Awareness Program has been evaluated and comments on the limitations of the methods used. It proposes a simple five-point model for evaluation. The conclusion is that the credibility of programs designed to enhance the public communication of science and technology will be questioned and funding threatened unless science communicators devote more resources to evaluation. On May 30, 2001, the Science and Technology Awareness Program was replaced by the National Innovation Awareness Strategy. a body with similar responsibilities.

Gaskell, G., et al. (2004). "GM foods and the misperception of risk perception." Risk Analysis 24(1): 185-194.	Public opposition to genetically modified (GM) food and crops is widely interpreted as the result of the public's misperception of the risks. With scientific assessment pointing to no unique risks from GM crops and foods, a strategy of accurate risk communication from trusted sources has been advocated. This is based on the assumption that the benefits of GM crops and foods are self-evident. Informed by the interpretation of some qualitative interviews with lay people, we use data from the Eurobarometer survey on biotechnology to explore the hypothesis that it is not so much the perception of risks as the absence of benefits that is the basis of the widespread rejection of GM foods and crops by the European public. Some respondents perceive both risks and benefits, and may be trading off these attributes along the lines of a rational choice model. However, for others, one attribute-benefit-appears to dominate their judgments: the lexicographic heuristic. For these respondents, their perception of risk is of limited importance in the formation of attitudes toward GM food and crops. The implication is that the absence of perceived benefits from GM foods and crops calls into question the relevance of risk communication strategies for bringing about change in public opinion.

Gaskell, G., et al. (2017). "Do closed survey questions overestimate public perceptions of food risks?" Journal of Risk Research 20(8): 1038-1052.	In this paper, we show that the widely accepted methodology for the assessment of risk perception - Likert-type survey questions featuring a set of risks with fixed response alternatives measuring the extent of worry or concern - may overestimate food risk perception. Using a European representative sample survey (n=26,961) that included an open-ended question asking about problems and risks with food and eating, followed by a battery of closed questions (CQs) assessing food risk perception, we find a similar ranking of perceived food risks across the two methods. Across Europe, the five priority concerns are chronic food-related illness; food origins and quality; acute food-related illness; chemical contamination; and adulteration of food. However, the discrepancies between mentioning a risk in the open-ended question and the expression of worry about risks in the CQ are substantial. Of those who did not mention a specific risk category in the open question, between 60 and 83% (depending on risk category) expressed worry in the CQ. This parallels previous research on the fear of crime, showing that survey responses lead to greatly inflated estimates of the public's fear of crime than is evidenced by qualitative questioning. It is also consistent with evidence from research on cognitive aspects of survey methodology, suggesting that survey questions may frame the respondent's thinking about an issue. We conclude with recommendations for the use of branched questions in the quantitative elicitation of public perceptions of risk.

Gaskell, G., et al. (2005). "Imagining nanotechnology: cultural support for technological innovation in Europe and the United States." Public Understanding of Science 14(1): 81-90.	This paper compares public perceptions of technologies in the United States and Europe. Asked whether nanotechnology will improve our way of life, 50 percent of the US sample say "yes" and 35 percent say "don't know." The European figures are almost the mirror image, 29 percent saying "yes" and 53 percent saying "don't know." People in the US are also more optimistic than Europeans about eight more familiar technologies. We suggest that people in the US assimilate nanotechnology within a set of pro-technology cultural values. By contrast, in Europe there is more concern about the impact of technology on the environment, less commitment to economic progress and less confidence in regulation. These differences in values are reflected in media coverage, with more emphasis on the potential benefits of nanotechnology in the US than in the UK. Finally, we speculate on possible futures for the reception of nanotechnology in the US and Europe.

Gaspar, R., et al. (2016). "Consumers' avoidance of information on red meat risks: information exposure effects on attitudes and perceived knowledge." Journal of Risk Research 19(4): 533-549.	In accordance with cognitive dissonance theory, individuals generally avoid information that is not consistent with their cognitions, to avoid psychological discomfort associated with tensions arising from contradictory beliefs. Information avoidance may thus make risk communication less successful. To address this, we presented information on red meat risks to red meat consumers. To explore information exposure effects, attitudes toward red meat and perceived knowledge of red meat risks were measured before, immediately after, and two weeks after exposure. We expected information avoidance of red meat risks to be: positively related to (1) study discontentment; and (2) positive attitudes toward red meat; and negatively related to (3) information seeking on red meat risks; and (4) systematic and heuristic processing of information. In addition, following exposure to the risk information, we expected that (5) individuals who scored high in avoidance of red meat risks information to change their attitudes and perceived risk knowledge less than individuals who scored low in avoidance. Results were in line with the first three expectations. Support for the fourth was partial insofar as this was only confirmed regarding systematic processing. The final prediction was not confirmed; individuals who scored high in avoidance decreased the positivity of their attitudes and increased their perceived knowledge in a similar fashion to those who scored low in avoidance. These changes stood over the two-week follow-up period. Results are discussed in accordance with cognitive dissonance theory, with the possible use of suppression strategies, and with the corresponding implications for risk communication practice.

Gassin, A. L. and I. Van Geest (2006). "Communication in Europe on semicarbazide and baby food." Journal of Risk Research 9(8): 823-832.	This article describes the European Food Safety Authority's ( EFSA) communications approach to a sensitive issue - the presence of semicarbazide in baby food - and in particular how the Authority co-ordinated the communications of its risk assessment findings with the European Commission, Member States and stakeholders in order to provide consumers in Europe with an accurate and meaningful message. Following the presentation of the semicarbazide case, the article describes the organization of risk communications in Europe, focusing in particular on the role of EFSA and its communications strategy. The approach followed by EFSA in developing communications messages on semicarbazide and the Authority's co- operation with national food safety authorities in their dissemination is then further explained. An analysis of the media coverage related to the semicarbazide assessment reveals the positive impact of EFSA's approach and collaboration with Member States in achieving broader dissemination of balanced and factual information on a complex and sensitive issue.

Gastel, B. (2006). "Scientific style and format: The CSE manual for authors, editors, and publishers, 7th ed." Science Communication 28(2): 274-277.
	
Gastel, B. (2006). "Medical marvels: The 100 greatest advances in medicine." Science Communication 28(2): 277-277.
	
Gastel, B. (2009). "Climate Chaos: Your Health at Risk. What You Can Do to Protect Yourself and Your Family." Science Communication 30(3): 415-417.
	
Gastel, B. (2011). "Scientific Writing = Thinking in Words." Science Communication 33(3): 408-409.
	
Gastrow, M. (2015). "Science and the Social Media in an African Context: The Case of the Square Kilometre Array Telescope." Science Communication 37(6): 703-722.	This study presents a media content analysis of representations of the Square Kilometre Array telescope on Twitter by South African users, drawing on a sample of 1,588 Tweets recorded over a period of 1 year from September 2011 to August 2012. The framing of the Square Kilometre Array was dominated by the site allocation process, which focused on the contestation between South Africa and Australia and formed a proxy discourse for politico-symbolic themes that framed the project as a symbol of African achievement. The overall composition of messages is dominated by large media firms, but there remains substantial scope for individual agency in shaping the discourse, particularly for high-profile users and leading science journalists. Micro-determinants also played a key role in shaping the virality of messages.

Gauchat, G. (2011). "The cultural authority of science: Public trust and acceptance of organized science." Public Understanding of Science 20(6): 751-770.	Using the National Science Foundation's 2006 Science Indicators Survey, this study explores three distinct explanations of public attitudes. First, the knowledge-attitudes model refers to a well tested relationship between public knowledge of science and more favorable attitudes toward science. Second, the alienation model hypothesizes that public disassociation with science is a symptom of a general disenchantment with late modernity, mainly, the limitations associated with codified expertise, rational bureaucracy, and institutional authority. A third approach emphasizes the cultural meaning of science: how various public beliefs about "what science is" relate to acceptance or reservations about science. The Science Indicators Survey shows that US adults view science (what it is or should be) in three distinct ways: 1) in terms of having a systematic method, 2) in terms of social location (i.e., takes place in a university or a laboratory), and 3) in terms of knowledge that should accord with commonsense and tradition. The findings in this study indicate that the knowledge-attitudes, alienation, and cultural meanings models are all valuable for understanding the cultural authority of science. However, the strength of these explanations depends on the type of attitude analyzed.

Gauthier, E. (2010). "Social Representations of Risk in the Food Irradiation Debate in Canada, 1986-2002." Science Communication 32(3): 295-329.	This article proposes a new approach to the issue of the acceptability of food irradiation, based on the analysis of the discourse of opinion makers and the theory of social representations. Two rounds of public consultations were held in Canada concerning the regulation of irradiation. Through analysis of the participants' discourse, the representations of risk that they expressed can be identified, and more can be learned about the social organization of the actors in the debate. By putting the results in perspective with the historical context, this article sheds new light on the influence that the discourse of opinion makers may have had on the regulatory and commercial fate of irradiation and on its acceptability among citizens-consumers.

Gauthier, E. (2011). "Foodborne microbial risks in the press: The framing of listeriosis in Canadian newspapers." Public Understanding of Science 20(2): 270-286.	Outbreaks of foodborne illness generally receive abundant print media coverage. However, the framing of outbreaks and representations of foodborne pathogens in the media discourse are not necessarily homogeneous. Drawing on previous research on media coverage of emerging diseases and on the conceptual tools of framing theory, this paper explores the diversity of frames and representations used in the media coverage of two listeriosis outbreaks that occurred in Canada in fall 2008. In the dominant war against microbes frame, microbes are portrayed as posing serious risks that call for stringent control measures. This frame coexists with other frames which rather emphasize economic, ecosystem or nutrition issues and which are supported by representations of microbial risks that either mitigate these risks, present them as inevitable or as less serious than others. The implications of these observations for the public understanding of foodborne microbial risks are discussed.

Gavin, N. T., et al. (2011). "Climate change, flooding and the media in Britain." Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 422-438.	The weather is a preoccupation of the British public, and flooding has become a salient feature of their experience. Climate science also has important things to say about the prevalence, distribution and dangers of rainfall and flooding, and what we should expect from global warming. This paper looks at British press coverage of flooding, and at the connections made between this theme and climate change. It aims to expose longitudinal patterning, and assess how common the connection is. From here the analysis moves to specific cases of high profile flooding events for a detailed exploration of the tone and tenor, and discursive contours of reports. The results suggest the media's contribution to genuine debate is mixed, that the connection between common forms of reportage and our scientific understanding of the phenomena is often tenuous. The paper explores the implications for the way the politics of climate change plays out.

Gehrke, P. J. (2014). "Ecological validity and the study of publics: The case for organic public engagement methods." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 77-91.	This essay argues for a method of public engagement grounded in the criteria of ecological validity. Motivated by what Hammersly called the responsibility that comes with intellectual authority: to seek, as far as possible, to ensure the validity of their conclusions and to participate in rational debate about those conclusions (1993: 29), organic public engagement follows the empirical turn in citizenship theory and in rhetorical studies of actually existing publics. Rather than shaping citizens into either the compliant subjects of the cynical view or the deliberatively disciplined subjects of the idealist view, organic public engagement instead takes Asen's advice that we should ask: how do people enact citizenship? (2004: 191). In short, organic engagement methods engage publics in the places where they already exist and through those discourses and social practices by which they enact their status as publics. Such engagements can generate practical middle-range theories that facilitate future actions and decisions that are attentive to the local ecologies of diverse publics.

Geiger, N., et al. (2017). "Catalyzing Public Engagement With Climate Change Through Informal Science Learning Centers." Science Communication 39(2): 221-249.	Using the head, heart, and hands model, we examined a training program designed to catalyze national public engagement with climate change through informal science learning centers (e.g., aquariums, zoos). Survey data were collected from visitors (N = 7,285) observing 1,101 presentations at 117 U.S. institutions before and after presenters participated in communication training. Visitors who attended posttraining (vs. pretraining) presentations reported greater understanding of climate change (head), hope (heart), and intentions to engage in community action (hands). As hypothesized, results suggested these changes were due to an increase in presenters' discussion of climate change and use of effective communication techniques.

George, S. K. (2013). "Imagining Postscience: Heidegger and Development Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(4): 548-564.	Modernization, the dominant contemporary model of development, has technoscientific rationality as its base. Alternatively, development can be understood as the ascent of individuals and communities toward their own conceptions of the good life. Such an understanding of development, it is argued, cannot be communicated under technoscientific assumptions. Instead, under the light of Heidegger's critique of technoscience and his philosophy of communication, a postscientific perspective is invoked for communicating development as good life, less violent to human communities and the environment, and less monolithic in design. Postscience evokes the multiplicity of ways in which we seek credibility for our projects in opposition to the monistic conception of truth and meaning in the technoscientific paradigm. Exploiting Heidegger's understanding of the world-disclosive power of language, development communication is understood as disclosing the genuine possibilities for the good life, concealed in a people's world, in an authentic act of engagement between the people and the communicator of development.

Gerhards, J. and M. S. Schafer (2009). "Two normative models of science in the public sphere: human genome sequencing in German and US mass media." Public Understanding of Science 18(4): 437-451.	The public sphere and particularly the mass media have become increasingly important for the legitimation of science. Many publications on the issue explicitly or implicitly deal with the question of how science should be treated in the mass media, putting forward normative models of an ideal "scientific public sphere." In this article, we first present two ideal types of normative models identified in the literature: the "science-dominated scientific public sphere" and the "contextualized scientific public sphere." Whereas the first model calls for scientific dominance in mass media debates, the second model argues that science should be contextualized also with non-scientific actors and arguments. The second part of the article outlines how these two models translate into specific demands for mass media debates and proposes how to measure whether concrete cases of science coverage correspond with one of the normative models. We confront the two normative models with the example of media coverage on human genome research in Germany and in the United States in the third part of the article. Our findings show that the mass media debate on this issue is dominated by bio-scientists, affirmative positions, and scientific and medical frames in both countries. Hence, human genome research as an empirical case corresponds to the demands of the scientific dominance model, while failing to meet the demands for more contextualized mass media coverage.

Gesser-Edelsburg, A. and Y. Shir-Raz (2017). "Science vs. fear: the Ebola quarantine debate as a case study that reveals how the public perceives risk." Journal of Risk Research 20(5): 611-633.	This study focuses on newspaper coverage of the Hickox quarantine incident, using it as a case study to examine how the media characterized the spread of disease in an ongoing crisis situation characterized by uncertainty. The study builds on Slovic et al.' s research, who argue that risk perception is comprised of both emotional and analytical aspects. We employed a qualitative approach, first examining articles on Hickox's story in The New York Times and New York Daily News between October 25 and 31, 2014; and second, readers' comments in response to these articles. The findings from the newspaper articles show that in their treatment of the quarantine debate, the media did not address the issue of uncertainty, and thus continued the health authorities' neglect of this issue. Although the media gave expression to various sides of the debate, it emphasized those who objected to the quarantine policy, thus raising the claim that the conflict was between 'science' and the public's 'irrational fears,' and that the governors decided on quarantine in response to the public's panic and fears. From our analysis of readers' comments, it appears that these claims are unjustified. First, we found that the public did not speak in a single unified voice, but rather, was divided into supporters and opponents of quarantine. Both sides used scientific arguments and resorted to similar terminology, and tended to cite and present studies backing their arguments. As for irrational fears, although quarantine supporters expressed emotions, they indicated mainly concerns, not panic or hysteria.

Gesser-Edelsburg, A. and Y. Shir-Raz (2018). "Communicating risk for issues that involve "uncertainty bias': what can the Israeli case of water fluoridation teach us?" Journal of Risk Research 21(4): 395-416.	Water fluoridation is a controversial issue in public health. Despite the uncertainty regarding its efficacy and safety, health officials continue to communicate it as unequivocally' safe and effective. Our focus is on how health officials and policy-makers in Israel frame the issue of water fluoridation in terms of certainty while promoting a mandatory fluoridation policy. According to van Asselt and Vos, the uncertainty paradox describes situations in which uncertainty is acknowledged, but the role of science is framed as providing certainty. Our study is an analysis of documents and media articles emphasizing the paradoxical language used by official representatives on the controversial topic of fluoridation. A central contribution of this study is that we coin the term uncertainty bias,' in which policy-makers do exactly what they accuse laypeople of doing, framing uncertainty in biased terms. We found that in order to establish mandatory regulation, health ministry officials expressed information in an unbalanced format, promoting the topic of fluoridation by framing it in exclusively positive terms. This study does not focus on the practice of water fluoridation per se, and is not intended to decide for or against it, but rather, to explore how the debate regarding it is communicated. Understanding this particular case can shed light on how other controversial topics are transformed into health policy that is characterized in equivocal terms.

Gesser-Edelsburg, A., et al. (2016). "Why do parents who usually vaccinate their children hesitate or refuse? General good vs. individual risk." Journal of Risk Research 19(4): 405-424.	This study examines vaccination hesitancy or refusal following the 2013 polio outbreak in Israel, based on two theoretical models. The first is Sandman's theoretical model, which holds that risk perception is comprised of hazard plus outrage. The second model is the affect heuristic that explains the risk/benefit confounding. It aims to expose the barriers that inhibited parental compliance with OPV vaccination for their children. The study employed mixed methods - a questionnaire survey (n=197) and content analysis of parents' discussions in blogs, Internet sites, and Facebook pages (n=2499). The findings indicate that some parents who normally give their children routine vaccinations decided not to give them OPV due to lack of faith in the health system, concerns about vaccine safety and reasons specific to the polio outbreak in Israel. Some vaccinated due to a misunderstanding, namely, they believed that OPV was supposed to protect their children, when it was actually for overall societal well-being. This study highlights the difficulty of framing the subject of vaccinations as a preventive measure, especially when the prevention is for society at large and not to protect the children themselves. The findings of this study are important because they provide a glimpse into a situation that can recur in different places in the world where a disease considered to have been eradicated' returns, and the public is required to take measures which protect the public but which might put individuals at risk. The conclusions from the analysis of the findings of this study are that the public's risk perception is based on a context-dependent analysis, which the communicating body must understand and respect.

Gesser-Edelsburg, A. and M. Zemach (2012). "From a fiasco to the Supertanker grand finale: Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu's crisis communication during the Carmel disaster." Journal of Risk Research 15(8): 967-989.	On 2 December 2010, a forest fire broke out in the Carmel Mountains of northern Israel and burned for four days, becoming the biggest fire in Israel's history. Forty-four people were killed, 17,000 were evacuated from their homes, and 25 million square meters of land with millions of trees burned down, in what became known as the 'Carmel disaster.' This article examines Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's communication of the Carmel disaster, using content, rhetorical risk communication, performance analysis, and a national public opinion survey. We claim it exposes the dilemma of what we label 'cover-up risk communication.' The analysis will examine the geo and social political context in which the Carmel disaster occurred, the rhetorical and performance strategies the prime minister chose to use to communicate the risk in his television appearances during the crisis, and the mass media's response to them. The public's response to the prime minister's risk communication is presented through the national public opinion survey we conducted. This case study indicates that even if a leader makes effective use of central tenets of risk communication (inclusion, clarity, and addressing the public's values and norms), when risk communication serves to cover-up failure rather than being part of an overall policy of changing priorities for the benefit of the population, then it becomes what we labeled 'cover-up risk communication.' In addition, when the press does not fill its role as the public's 'watchdog,' it might reinforce cover-up communication by the leadership and compromise the chance to correct defects.

Giannoulis, C., et al. (2010). "Newspaper Reporters' Priorities and Beliefs About Environmental Journalism: An Application of Q-Methodology." Science Communication 32(4): 425-466.	This article assesses the variety of discourses articulated by journalists reporting on environmental issues. In particular, it investigates how environmental journalists perceive their role and function as reporters of environmental issues as well as the problems they face while reporting. The authors interviewed 23 newspaper reporters covering environmental issues for the nine largest (in terms of daily circulation) daily Greek newspapers, by employing Q-methodology, a qualitative statistical approach specially adjusted for small samples. The subsequent analysis reveals three "factors," or distinct discourses, labeled "scientifically objective, environmentally responsible journalist," "environmental crusaders," and "objective-pure journalists." By analyzing factors' discourses, the authors concluded that these groups are highly similar to the "disseminator," "interpreter/investigator," and "populist mobilize" categories identified in previous research for journalists with different field orientations. However, the last category ("adversarial") did not appear in our sample. The authors encourage the replication of this research study in other countries as an effective method of obtaining a broader understanding of the practices and impacts of environmental journalism at a global level.

Gigerenzer, G., et al. (2005). ""A 30% chance of rain tomorrow": How does the public understand probabilistic weather forecasts?" Risk Analysis 25(3): 623-629.	The weather forecast says that there is a "30% chance of rain," and we think we understand what it means. This quantitative statement is assumed to be unambiguous and to convey more information than does a qualitative statement like "It might rain tomorrow." Because the forecast is expressed as a single-event probability, however, it does not specify the class of events it refers to. Therefore, even numerical probabilities can be interpreted by members of the public in multiple, mutually contradictory ways. To find out whether the same statement about rain probability evokes various interpretations, we randomly surveyed pedestrians in five metropolises located in countries that have had different degrees of exposure to probabilistic forecasts--Amsterdam, Athens, Berlin, Milan, and New York. They were asked what a "30% chance of rain tomorrow" means both in a multiple-choice and a free-response format. Only in New York did a majority of them supply the standard meteorological interpretation, namely, that when the weather conditions are like today, in 3 out of 10 cases there will be (at least a trace of) rain the next day. In each of the European cities, this alternative was judged as the least appropriate. The preferred interpretation in Europe was that it will rain tomorrow "30% of the time," followed by "in 30% of the area." To improve risk communication with the public, experts need to specify the reference class, that is, the class of events to which a single-event probability refers.

Gil, S. (2018). "An animated episode in the history of science: Remembering Giordano Bruno beyond 1600." Public Understanding of Science 27(6): 745-749.
	
Gilbert, C. (2007). "Crisis analysis: Between normalization and avoidance." Journal of Risk Research 10(7): 925-940.	French social science research on crisis has experienced strong evolutions over the past twenty years. Attention shifted from problems that the authorities had in managing industrial accidents and natural disasters, transportation accidents, to crisis associated with the idea of an 'affair' or 'scandal' ( contaminated blood affair, asbestos issue) and to collective risks characterized by a high level of uncertainty and generating multiple scientific controversies and public debates ('' Mad cow disease '', GMO, etc,). Another change regards the issues at stake. Whereas management problems ( regarding decision, communication, etc.) were the core issues, analyses are now more and more focused on multiple scientific controversies and public debates, on public authorities and scientific experts being held accountable for serious dysfunctions in the public health field, on media coverage and legal repercussions of such problems. Because of this double change, crises tend to become a more 'ordinary' research topic in the academic field. Consequently new trends of analysis develop, related less to a specific, critical situation than to changes and destabilizations in systems of actors. From this point of view, crisis has a strongly endogenous character and crises analysis tends to converge with the analysis of risks as public problems and with the analysis of 'normal' situations.

Gilmour, J., et al. (2011). "Biosecurity risk and peri-urban landholders - using a stakeholder consultative approach to build a risk communication strategy." Journal of Risk Research 14(3): 281-295.	This article presents a straightforward and highly participatory methodology for addressing government agencies' concerns with effective communication strategies for biosecurity when stakeholders are diverse and there is uncertainty about their levels of knowledge. The case study was among peri-urban landholders in an area where serious animal disease infestation has occurred within the last 10 years. Initially we engaged stakeholders in a consultative process that included establishing a stakeholder influence and interest map for both weeds and animal diseases. This was followed with a mental model approach involving surveys and in-depth interviews. We elicited information about landholders' knowledge, practices, values and beliefs regarding biosecurity risk. Our consultative process generated examples that indicate that effective risk communication relies on establishing and affirming mutual levels of trust and credibility between landholders and agencies. While this finding is not surprising, we argue that attention to stakeholder consultative processes is central to overcoming barriers to changing practices and building awareness. Secondly, our data confirmed that while smaller landholders were the initial target for the communication, all landholders represented a similar level of biosecurity risk. Therefore, our approach was critical in overcoming external assumptions about particular actors. Finally, our data pointed to the need to develop a whole of landscape approach to biosecurity risk communication strategy in consultation with local stakeholders.

Gkiouzepas, G. and I. Botetzagias (2017). "Climate Change Coverage in Greek Newspapers: 2001-2008." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(4): 490-514.	This paper's aim is to identify the debate and document the coverage of climate change (CC) in the Greek national press and to assess to what extent this reporting exhibits the traits anticipated by the polarized pluralist character of the Greek media system. In order to do this, we analyzed articles published in three Greek quality newspapers (Kathimerini, Ta NEA, and Eleftherotypia) over the period 2001-2008 (N =2072). Our findings suggest a mixed picture: the Greek media debate is characterized by consensus on the anthropogenic causes of CC and on the promotion of renewable energy sources as a means for tackling Greek CC-related emissions. However when examining more specific/controversial CC-policy decisions, there is less evidence supporting a close link with the national character of Greek media reporting, with newspapers appearing to align themselves along partisan lines.

Gkiouzepas, G. and I. Botetzagias (2018). "The Narrative Cycle of Climate Change in the Greek Newspapers, 2001-2008." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(4): 507-524.	This paper aims to establish whether the longitudinal framing of climate change (CC) in Greek newspapers exhibits the characteristics of a narrative cycle, with different themes becoming prominent at different periods in accordance with the media's narrative considerations. In order to test this assumption, we formulate a number of hypotheses which we test with data originating from three Greek newspapers over the period 2001-2008. We find that the scientific and ecological/meteorological themes of CC are more often mentioned during the initial phase of media coverage, arguably due to media's attempt to open the narrative and capture the public's attention. Public protests and debate feature more prominently during the peaked phase of coverage, in accordance with the narrative need for a climax, while the later period of coverage, when some kind of resolution to the story should be offered, is characterized by the prominence of policy-making and economy-related issues.

Glicken, J. (1999). "Effective public involvement in public decisions." Science Communication 20(3): 298-327.	Historically, decisions affecting the general public have been made with input from selected people-those with responsibility for the decisions or with applicable technical expertise. Increasingly, the broader public is demanding more direct involvement in decisions that will affect their lives. Articulating the public's position on a given issue can be difficult as the "public" represents a broad spectrum of needs and desires that can conflict or change on any given issue. This article presents an analysis of the evolving role of the public in public decisions and offers a rigorous approach for eliciting usable information from the public.

Goble, R. and V. M. Bier (2013). "Risk Assessment Can Be a Game-Changing Information Technology-But Too Often It Isn't." Risk Analysis 33(11): 1942-1951.	The printing press was a game-changing information technology. Risk assessment could be also. At present, risk assessments are commonly used as one-time decision aids: they provide justification for a particular decision, and afterwards usually sit on a shelf. However, when viewed as information technologies, their potential uses are much broader. Risk assessments: (1) are repositories of structured information and a medium for communication; (2) embody evaluative structures for setting priorities; (3) can preserve information over time and permit asynchronous communication, thus encouraging learning and adaptation; and (4) explicitly address uncertain futures. Moreover, because of their what-if capabilities, risk assessments can serve as a platform for constructive discussion among parties that hold different values. The evolution of risk assessment in the nuclear industry shows how such attributes have been used to lower core-melt risks substantially through improved templates for maintenance and more effective coordination with regulators (although risk assessment has been less commonly used in improving emergency-response capabilities). The end result of this evolution in the nuclear industry has been the development of living risk assessments that are updated more or less in real time to answer even routine operational questions. Similar but untapped opportunities abound for the use of living risk assessments to reduce risks in small operational decisions as well as large policy decisions in other areas of hazard management. They can also help improve understanding of and communication about risks, and future risk assessment and management. Realization of these opportunities will require significant changes in incentives and active promotion by the risk analytic community.

Godard, B., et al. (2010). "Ethnocultural community leaders' views and perceptions on biobanks and population specific genomic research: a qualitative research study." Public Understanding of Science 19(4): 469-485.	Substantial investments were made in population based biobanks over the past decade. Ethnocultural community members are both sponsors and beneficiaries of biobanks. In addition, the success of biobank projects depends on community support and participation. Yet there are few empirical data on views, perceptions and interests of ethnocultural communities on biobanks. This silent gap in genomics, ethics and policy literatures has to be addressed. We conducted a qualitative research study with in-depth interviews of ethnocultural community leaders (e. g., members of the Canadian Parliament, school commissioners) on their perspectives concerning population specific genomics research and biobanks. An equal partnership model where public is not only informed, but also involved in decision-making processes was perceived as an essential democratic requisite. These empirical data on ethnocultural community leaders' views, interests and perceptions identify several key socio-cultural and ethical factors that can be decisive for effective and sustainable community involvement in biobanks.

Godin, B. and Y. Gingras (2000). "What is scientific and technological culture and how is it measured? A multidimensional model." Public Understanding of Science 9(1): 43-58.	In the last decade, scientific culture has become a theme much discussed at all levels of public discourse. All scientific and technological policies developed in the last few years in QECD countries have included scientific culture as one of their aims, principles, or objectives. Despite the ubiquity of the term "scientific culture" there is little agreement on its content. Definitions and understandings of what a scientific culture is vary across countries, groups, and individuals. There is also no consensus on how to measure scientific culture. The present paper addresses the question "what is a scientific culture?". It presents a multidimensional model wherein scientific culture is defined as having two dimensions: individual and social. It then discusses how the model can be used to define indicators of scientific culture and to understand recent developments regarding the role of scientists in the diffusion of scientific culture.

Gold, B. D. (2001). "The Aldo Leopold Leadership Program - Training environmental scientists to be civic scientists." Science Communication 23(1): 41-49.	The Aldo Leopold Leadership Program (ALLP) was begun in 1998 to better prepare environmental scientists to engage with the public and interact with the media, ALLP fellows learn skills that will enable them to better understand the various communities in which environmental science is used and to more effectively share their knowledge of environmental science with media representatives, policymakers, and the private sector This article describes the training and some of the activities of the ALLP fellows.

Gold, L. S., et al. (1992). "Extrapolation of Carcinogenicity between Species - Qualitative and Quantitative Factors." Risk Analysis 12(4): 579-588.	Prediction of human cancer risk from the results of rodent bioassays requires two types of extrapolation: a qualitative extrapolation from short-lived rodent species to long-lived humans, and a quantitative extrapolation from near-toxic doses in the bioassay to low-level human exposures. Experimental evidence on the accuracy of prediction between closely related species tested under similar experimental conditions (rats, mice, and hamsters) indicates that: (1) if a chemical is positive in one species, it will be positive in the second species about 75% of the time; however, since about 50% of test chemicals are positive in each species, by chance alone one would expect a predictive value between species of about 50%. (2) If a chemical induces tumors in a particular target organ in one species, it will induce tumors in the same organ in the second species about 50% of the time. Similar predictive values are obtained in an analysis of prediction from humans to rats or from humans to mice for known human carcinogens. Limitations of bioassay data for use in quantitative extrapolation are discussed, including constraints on both estimates of carcinogenic potency and of the dose-response in experiments with only two doses and a control. Quantitative extrapolation should be based on an understanding of mechanisms of carcinogenesis, particularly mitogenic effects that are present at high and not low doses.

Goldberg, A. I. (1997). "Vulnerability and disclosure in science - The interplay between agency and structure." Science Communication 19(2): 99-123.	The interplay between agency and structure explains a scientist's readiness to disclose information about research efforts. In a survey of 628 Israeli researchers, personal strategies in the pursuit of collegial appreciation were influenced by conflicting value guidelines at different time-space frameworks for scientific work. When researchers encountered the value of communality, they were encouraged to communicate freely to obtain community recognition. When a greater stress was placed on universalism, restricting communication became a reasonable strategy to protect acknowledgment rights. The influence of universalism was intensified when researchers inferred a structural vulnerability because of exposure to contextual conditions that increased the possibility of losing acknowledgment. A balanced impact of the two values-communality and universalism-may be postulated as contributing to a more rapid development of the scientific enterprise.

Goldfarb, J. L. and D. L. Kriner (2017). "Building Public Support for Science Spending: Misinformation, Motivated Reasoning, and the Power of Corrections." Science Communication 39(1): 77-100.	While most Americans support scientific research, few favor an increase in federal investment. This opposition is driven in large part by misinformation about the actual level of governmental support for science. Employing an experiment embedded on a nationally representative survey, we find that most Americans significantly overestimate the share of the federal budget allocated to scientific research. Correcting this misperception significantly increases support for additional science spending. We find little evidence that subjects engage in motivated reasoning when confronted with this correction. Information about the low level of existing funding increased support for investment in science across partisan and ideological divides.

Golding, D., et al. (1992). "Evaluating Risk Communication - Narrative Vs Technical Presentations of Information About Radon." Risk Analysis 12(1): 27-35.	This paper reports on an experiment to test the hypothesis that people respond better to risk communication that reflects more closely the conditions of their social and cultural lives.  The experiment used the case of radon to determine whether technical or narrative forms of risk communication were more effective at drawing people's attention, imparting information, and modifying behavior.  Two series of articles on radon were placed in the local newspapers of two Massachusetts communities.  Homeowner attitudes, knowledge, and responses were monitored in baseline and follow-up telephone surveys.  A third community was selected for comparison.  The newspaper series were developed on the basis of previous research and six focus groups conducted with homeowners.  The technical series presented authoritative, factual risk information, in the scientific style of the passive voice with generalized and impersonal language.  The narrative series consisted of dramatized accounts of individuals making decisions about radon testing and mitigation, written in a more personal style.  The findings from the focus groups confirm the results of previous studies, but the small size of the follow-up samples was a limiting factor in drawing definitive conclusions about the relative effectiveness of the two formats.  The experiment demonstrates the difficulty of any risk communication effort on radon and underscores the need for good research design.  The study illustrates the need for further research on the role of sociological and cultural factors in the public perception and response to risk.

Goldstein, B. D., et al. (1992). "Risk to Groundlings of Death Due to Airplane Accidents - a Risk Communication Tool." Risk Analysis 12(3): 339-341.	During the period 1975-85 in the United States the 70 year lifetime risk of dying from being hit by an airplane when the individual is on the ground was 4.2 per million people. In contrast to many other risks used for comparison purposes, risk to those on the ground from an airplane crash is not a function of our own skills; is not optional; provides no benefit to anyone involved; and is not an act of nature. As a risk comparison tool it also has the useful characteristics of being something about which we can agree that regulatory action, such as control of airplane use and traffic, is warranted; but that no significant change in personal behavior, such as living in the basement to protect against dying from a plane hitting the home, is commensurate with the extent of risk.

Gonzalez, D., et al. (2017). "Women Scientists as Decor: The Image of Scientists in Spanish Press Pictures." Science Communication 39(4): 535-547.	Women are still less present in scientific areas than men. This study analyzes the visual representation of women scientists in Spanish press and concludes that they are also underrepresented in newspapers. We analyze 1,134 photographs published in 2014 and 2015 in the science news sections of the four largest distribution Spanish newspapers. A tendency to present men more often as the protagonists of the information and women as a visual resource is also observed. This text proposes the need for the media to be aware of such underrepresentation and to match the number of men and women in graphic materials.

Good, J. E. (2009). "The Cultivation, Mainstreaming, and Cognitive Processing of Environmentalists Watching Television." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(3): 279-297.	Cultivation theory research has found a relationship between heavier viewing of television and less concern about the natural environment. The current research delves further into this issue by exploring how environmentalists' television viewing is related to their attitudes about the environment. The findings indicate that when overall television viewing is the independent variable, there are cultivation and mainstreaming effects for environmentalists (i.e., environmentalists who were heavy viewers of television scored lower on the new environmental paradigm (NEP) scale than lighter viewing environmentalists, and were more similar to the general public in their environmental attitudes than lighter viewers). The findings also show that the cultivation effects are related to need for cognition (NFC) and attention to television (such that those with higher NFC, and those who pay more attention to television, have lower scores on the NEP scale). When non-fiction programming is the independent variable, however, heavier television viewers score higher on the NEP, and NFC and attention to television do not relate to the cultivation effect.

Goodman, J. R. and B. P. Goodman (2006). "Beneficial or biohazard? How the media frame biosolids." Public Understanding of Science 15(3): 359-375.	This study looked at how the media framed biosolids, or treated sewage sludge, from 1994 to 2004 by analyzing the 13 media frames found in 286 biosolid-related articles from newspapers in Florida, Virginia, and California. The researchers found the articles framed biosolids as a regulatory or legal issue most often, and most of the frames' tones were neutral (1,958). However, negative tone (507) happened three times more often than positive tone (149), and environmental, management, and public nuisance framing tended to be more negative than any of the other frames. Neither the frames themselves nor the tones had statistically significant changes over the past decade. Regarding the sources used in the stories, the most frequent source was local government officials, which were used twice as frequently as any other source, followed by corporations (16 percent) and citizens (14 percent). These findings should help biosolid producers and officials in developing a media strategy that is proactive toward shaping public opinion rather than reactive to an issue that makes its way to the media and spurs public concern.

Goodman, M. K., et al. (2016). "Spectacular environmentalisms: media, knowledge and the framing of ecological politics." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 677-688.
	
Goodwin, J. and S. Priest (2012). "Untitled." Science Communication 34(5): 563-565.
	
Goodwin, R., et al. (2011). "Representations of swine flu: perspectives from a Malaysian pig farm." Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 477-490.	Novel influenza viruses are seen, internationally, as posing considerable health challenges, but public responses to such viruses are often rooted in cultural representations of disease and risk. However, little research has been conducted in locations associated with the origin of a pandemic. We examined representations and risk perceptions associated with swine flu amongst 120 Malaysian pig farmers. Thirty-seven per cent of respondents felt at particular risk of infection, two-thirds were somewhat or very concerned about being infected. Those respondents who were the most anxious believed particular societal "out-groups" (homosexuals, the homeless and prostitutes) to be at higher infection risk. Although few (4%) reported direct discrimination, 46% claimed friends had avoided them since the swine flu outbreak. Findings are discussed in the context of evolutionary, social representations and terror management theories of response to pandemic threat.

Gordon, J. (2003). "Risk communication and foodborne illness: Message sponsorship and attempts to stimulate perceptions of risk." Risk Analysis 23(6): 1287-1296.	Foodborne illness represents a serious health hazard in the United States. Since foodborne illness can often be prevented by an individual's behavior, messages aimed at promoting safe food-handling behaviors should be a major tool to reduce the incidence of foodborne illness. This article argues that to achieve adoption of safe food-handling practices in the home, food-safety messages should both stimulate risk perceptions and promote self-efficacy, feelings that one can successfully enact recommended behaviors. A content analysis of nationally distributed food-safety messages questioned if messages incorporated these features. Since food-safety communicators operate in complex environments with multiple and sometimes competing objectives, this study also questioned if sponsorship of foodborne illness prevention messages was related to the amount of content designed to alter risk perceptions associated with foodborne illness. Results of the quantitative content analysis found that copywriters generally included content designed to stimulate risk perception about foodborne illness but virtually ignored self-efficacy needs of the audience. A marked difference in tendencies to stimulate risk perceptions was found based on sponsorship. Both in volume and proportion, results show that governmentally sponsored messages more aggressively attempted to heighten risk perceptions associated with foodborne illness than did messages sponsored by privately funded communicators.

Gordon, J. C., et al. (2010). "Global Warming Coverage in the Media: Trends in a Mexico City Newspaper." Science Communication 32(2): 143-170.	This study examined newspaper coverage, intensity of stories (how intensely the issue of global warming is presented), and the presence of frames, solutions, and conflicts surrounding the global warming issue in 144 articles appearing from 2004 through 2006 in the Mexico City based newspaper, Reforma. The ecology/science frame and consequences frames were the most intensely reported frames. Scientific conflict and U.S. conflict are present, but in low frequencies and near the end of stories. International relations were the most frequently presented solution to global warming, and story frequencies peaked during international conferences. Consistent with previous findings, this study found that foreign media tend to emphasize international relations and de-emphasize conflicts and controversies.

Gorke, A. and G. Ruhrmann (2003). "Public communication between facts and fictions: on the construction of genetic risk." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 229-241.	The article aims to analyze the media's role in the construction of genetic risk. With the help of systems theory journalism and entertainment are described as an integral part of public communication. It is argued, that both serve a synchronization function and influence the public perception of genetic risk. These comparative perspective gets adapted to current theoretical and methodological problems in the analysis of public representations of genetic engineering. It is argued, that content analysis is a promising method to compare entertaining and journalistic communication on genetic engineering, while in the long run it serves only as a starting point of a broader research program.

Gorsevski, E. W. (2012). "Wangari Maathai's Emplaced Rhetoric: Greening Global Peacebuilding." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(3): 290-307.	This article offers new insights into how Wangari Maathai's rhetoric of emplacement may be productively understood as a growing form of postcolonial communication, which is amenable to criticism and theory-building in rhetorical studies. Maathai's emplaced rhetoric (ER) addressed postcolonial oppressions while emphasizing peacebuilding. ER is a form of postcolonial symbolic and discursive message-making found in a variety of communication contexts, often political, intercultural, and international exchanges about the environment. Prevailing literature on environmental communication features rhetorics that relate to colonial caused inequities, but little has been discussed in terms of connecting peacebuilding rhetoric of African women's leadership to environmental sustainability. ER functions as a heuristic move to restore agency, interconnection and wholeness of sentient beings and ecosystems within the postcolonial context; it is the peacebuilder's transcendence over dominant discourses that normalize displacement and fragmentation. This rhetorical analysis of recent texts of Maathai as a major peacebuilder in environmental and social justice activism serves as an antidote to the gap in contemporary criticism of postcolonial and environmental confluences in communication.

Gorton, W. and J. Diels (2011). "Is political talk getting smarter? An analysis of presidential debates and the Flynn effect." Public Understanding of Science 20(5): 578-594.	James R. Flynn has shown that I.Q.s of persons living in industrialized societies have increased steadily over the past century, averaging a three-point gain per decade. The cause of the "Flynn effect" is unclear, but in What Is Intelligence? Flynn suggests that the I.Q. gains are attributable to an increasingly conceptually complex social environment. An important cause of this enriched cognitive world is the increasing permeation of scientific categories into everyday thinking. Using a mix of human coding and computer-aided content analysis, we test whether the use of abstract scientific terms, and employing such terms in causal and logical analysis, has increased over time in presidential debates. We find no evidence that the discourse in these debates has become scientifically richer, and find that scientific discourse with respect to economics has actually declined. Possible reasons for this finding and directions for future study are discussed.

Gotham, K. F., et al. (2018). "Hazard Experience, Geophysical Vulnerability, and Flood Risk Perceptions in a Postdisaster City, the Case of New Orleans." Risk Analysis 38(2): 345-356.	This article investigates the determinants of flood risk perceptions in New Orleans, Louisiana (United States), a deltaic coastal city highly vulnerable to seasonal nuisance flooding and hurricane-induced deluges and storm surges. Few studies have investigated the influence of hazard experience, geophysical vulnerability (hazard proximity), and risk perceptions in cities undergoing postdisaster recovery and rebuilding. We use ordinal logistic regression techniques to analyze experiential, geophysical, and sociodemographic variables derived from a survey of 384 residents in seven neighborhoods. We find that residents living in neighborhoods that flooded during Hurricane Katrina exhibit higher levels of perceived risk than those residents living in neighborhoods that did not flood. In addition, findings suggest that flood risk perception is positively associated with female gender, lower income, and direct flood experiences. In conclusion, we discuss the implications of these findings for theoretical and empirical research on environmental risk, flood risk communication strategies, and flood hazards planning.

Gould, P. (1999). "Kindred nature: Victorian and Edwardian women embrace the living world." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 259-260.
	
Goulden, M. (2009). "Boundary-work and the human-animal binary: Piltdown man, science and the media." Public Understanding of Science 18(3): 275-291.	The infamous Piltdown hoax offers an excellent opportunity to study how a figure that straddled the human-animal boundary (both figuratively in its positioning as a "missing link," and literally given its post-hoax status as a modern human skull and a modern orangutan jaw) was made to fit dichotomous understandings of it. The process of making this figure human reveals how scientific claims in the disputed border zone between humans and non-human animals are shaped by the cultural themes upon which the division stands. Nationalism, race and species classification became enmeshed in the efforts to lead Piltdown from its liminal position to more conceptually stable ground. The result was a stretching of humanness, that brought Piltdown closer to us whilst modern-day " savages" were moved further away. The paper's theoretical framework shifts Gieryn's boundary-work model from an ontology of culture to an ontology of nature. Transplanting Gieryn's model in this way is useful not only because of the parallels specifically between the science-culture and human-animal boundaries, but also as it serves as a reminder of the strong relationship between the categorization of the social and natural worlds.

Goulden, M. (2013). "Hobbits, hunters and hydrology: Images of a "missing link," and its scientific communication." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 575-589.	Dissemination of the 2004 discovery of Homo floresiensis, aka the Flores Hobbit, provides the case material for an analysis of science communication models, using coverage of the find in science journals, popular science magazines, and UK newspapers. A distinction is made between popular science and public science, the latter notable for the proactive manner in which it seeks not simply to interpret science for a wider audience, but also expand upon it. The nature of the flows of knowledge between science and nonscience cultures is used to critique both traditional canonical models of science communication, and more recent constructivist accounts like that of Hilgartner's continuum model. The paper concludes by suggesting an extended model that builds on the logic of the river metaphor used by both Hilgartner and Gieryn. It is argued that this more complex, multi-directional, hydrologic model provides a richer account of science communication.

Gouyon, J. B. (2016). "1985, Scientists can't do science alone, they need publics." Public Understanding of Science 25(6): 754-757.
	
Gouyon, J. B. (2016). "Science and film-making." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 17-30.	The essay reviews the literature, mostly historical, on the relationship between science and film-making, with a focus on the science documentary. It then discusses the circumstances of the emergence of the wildlife making-of documentary genre. The thesis examined here is that since the early days of cinema, film-making has evolved from being subordinate to science, to being an equal partner in the production of knowledge, controlled by non-scientists.

Gouyon, J. B. (2018). "From engaged citizen to lone hero: Nobel Prize laureates on British television, 1962-2004." Public Understanding of Science 27(4): 446-457.	Between 1962 and 2004, Nobel Prize laureates appear in the British television science programme Horizon in various roles, denoting differing understandings of science in relation to society and culture. These representations are the outcome of an interplay of cultural and institutional factors. They vary with the broadcasting environment. Notably, the article establishes that the choice of presenting scientists as heroic characters in strongly determined storylines from the late-1990s onwards originates in a reaction to institutional imperatives as a means to preserve the existence of the Horizon series. The article shows that exigencies of the institutional context in which media professionals operate are major factors influencing the representation of science in public.

Goven, J. (2003). "Deploying the consensus conference in New Zealand: democracy and de-problematization." Public Understanding of Science 12(4): 423-440.	The turn toward public participation in technology assessment points to a link between democratization and the problematization of dominant assumptions, explanations, and justifications. Here, I evaluate whether the use of the consensus conference in New Zealand facilitated such problematization. After a brief outline of the Danish model, I discuss the ways in which the New Zealand conference differed from that model and demonstrate how strategies for managing the resulting bias undermined the possibility of problematization. Further, I argue that participants' attempts to problematize were subsumed into the dominant scientific and economic rationalities through processes I call assimilation, resignation, and externalization. I argue that the effect of the conference process was to assimilate some concerns into the deficit model, produce a sense of resignation to the "inevitable" with regard to other concerns, and externalize those remaining onto the indigenous population.

Grand, A., et al. (2012). "Open Science: A New "Trust Technology"?" Science Communication 34(5): 679-689.	The emerging practice of open science, which makes the entire process of a scientific investigation available, could extend membership of the research community to new, public audiences, who do not have access to science's long-established trust mechanisms. This commentary considers if the structures that enable scientists to trust each other, and the public to trust scientists, are enriched by the open science approach. The completeness of information provided by open science, whether as a replacement for or complement to older systems for establishing trust within science, makes it a potentially useful "trust technology.".

Grand, A., et al. (2016). "Mapping the hinterland: Data issues in open science." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 88-103.	Open science is a practice in which the scientific process is shared completely and in real time. It offers the potential to support information flow, collaboration and dialogue among professional and non-professional participants. Using semi-structured interviews and case studies, this research investigated the relationship between open science and public engagement. This article concentrates on three particular areas of concern that emerged: first, how to effectively contextualise and narrate information to render it accessible, as opposed to simply available; second, concerns about data quantity and quality; and third, concerns about the skills required for effective contextualisation, mapping and interpretation of information.

Gray, J. M. (2007). "Performing Nature: Explorations in Ecology and the Arts." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(2): 243-250.
	
Gray, J. M. (2007). "Nature Performed: Environment, Culture, and Performance." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(2): 243-250.
	
Greaves, T. (1995). "The Intellectual Property of Sovereign Tribes." Science Communication 17(2): 201-213.	This article discusses how indigenous groups are using intellectual property rights (IPR) law and how these rights are being expanded. Indigenous groups and their advocates in the United States, Canada, and other countries are experimenting aggressively with IPR to solve a keenly felt problem: how to gain control over what outsiders can use of indigenous culture. The main instruments of intellectual property are ill suited for this job; however the applications of IPR for tribal groups are not negligible and are providing some legal protections. Indigenous groups and their advocates are also conducting an extensive global campaign to modify or supplement existing IPR instruments to make them more useful for protecting traditional culture. In the interim, indigenous groups are relying on measures at the level of their reservations and tribal governments that, in varying degrees, impose some collective control over outsiders' unfettered appropriation of their cultural information.

Greenberg, J. M. (2004). "Creating the "Pillars": multiple meanings of a Hubble image." Public Understanding of Science 13(1): 83-95.	The "Pillars of Creation" is arguably the most famous image produced by the Hubble space telescope, and it has led a quite unexpected life. On one hand, by tracing the trajectory of the image from its genesis through the traditional media channels between science and the public, this paper is a straightforward case study in the black-boxing of a scientific image. However, by continuing the story and following the "Pillars" into the hands of a group of enthusiasts whose interpretations of it differ from those of the scientific community, we find that the power of black-boxed scientific rhetoric can be co-opted by those who would use it for their own purposes.

Greenberg, M. (2013). "We Need Risk Communication and Perception Research Focused on Flood Risks for Senior Citizens." Risk Analysis 33(1): 52-53.
	
Greenberg, M. and K. Lowrie (2009). "Risk Perception and Communication." Risk Analysis 29(8): 1059-1060.
	
Greenberg, M. R. and K. W. Lowrie (2018). "NICK PIDGEON: Bringing Environmental Risk and Communication into Decision Making." Risk Analysis 38(5): 871-875.
	
Greenberg, M. R., et al. (2014). "Public Support for Policies to Reduce Risk After Hurricane Sandy." Risk Analysis 34(6): 997-1012.	A phone survey was conducted in New Jersey in 2013 four months after the second of two major devastating tropical storms (Sandy in 2012 and Irene in 2011). The objective was to estimate public support for restricting land uses in flood zones, requiring housing to be built to resist storm waters, and otherwise increasing mitigation and resilience. Respondents who supported these mitigation and resilience policies disproportionately were concerned about global climate change, trusted climate scientists and the federal government, and were willing to contribute to a redevelopment program through taxes, bonds, and fees. They also tended to have collectivist and egalitarian worldviews. Half of the respondents supported at least four of the seven risk-reducing policies. How their support translates into public policy remains to be seen. Lack of willingness to personally fund these policies is an obstacle.

Greenhill, B., et al. (2018). "Exploring the Adaptation-mitigation Relationship: Does Information on the Costs of Adapting to Climate Change Influence Support for Mitigation?" Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(7): 911-927.	Can information about adaptation costs influence citizens' willingness to support climate change mitigation? Some scholars are concerned that policy discussions on adaptation might present climate change as a more manageable problem, and therefore crowd out mitigation efforts. On the other hand, providing information on adaptation costs may sensitize citizens to these costs, thereby increasing their willingness to support mitigation. To assess these conflicting predictions, we fielded a web-based survey experiment using a sample of 2,000 US-based respondents. We presented the respondents with a hypothetical newspaper article regarding a proposed gasoline tax (a mitigation strategy) and measured the support for this proposal across different treatment groups. In the control group, the respondents were told that failure to mitigate climate change could result in a potentially catastrophic outcome, whereas in each of the treatment groups the respondents were provided with information concerning possible adaptation costs. The respondents were then asked about their willingness to support a gasoline tax. Our key finding is that the provision of information about adaptation costs leads to a small increase in the respondents' willingness to support mitigation efforts. Furthermore, we find that this effect becomes larger when the information regarding adaptation costs is made more specific.

Greenhill, M., et al. (2014). "Assessing climate change beliefs: Response effects of question wording and response alternatives." Public Understanding of Science 23(8): 947-965.	To date, there is no gold standard' on how to best measure public climate change beliefs. We report a study (N = 897) testing four measures of climate change causation beliefs, drawn from four sources: the CSIRO, Griffith University, the Gallup poll, and the Newspoll. We found that question wording influences the outcome of beliefs reported. Questions that did not allow respondents to choose the option of believing in an equal mix of natural and anthropogenic climate change obtained different results to those that included the option. Age and belief groups were found to be important predictors of how consistent people were in reporting their beliefs. Response consistency gave some support to past findings suggesting climate change beliefs reflect something deeper in the individual belief system. Each belief question was assessed against five criterion variables commonly used in climate change literature. Implications for future studies are discussed.

Greenwood, M. R. C. and D. G. Riordan (2001). "Civic scientist/civic duty." Science Communication 23(1): 28-40.	The term civic scientist has been used within the science community since 1997. The term has come to be interpreted in a variety of ways. This article, which was first prepared for the session "Cultivating the Civic Scientist" at the 2001 annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in San Francisco on 16 February 2001, offers one perspective about the meaning of the term. It links the notion of being it civic scientist, cis proposed by Neal Lane in 1997. to civic duty, which the authors define as a personal call to public service that is not necessarily linked to one's research career.

Gregory, J. (2000). "Carl Sagan: A life." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 461-462.
	
Gregory, J. (2003). "The popularization and excommunication of Fred Hoyle's "life-from-space" theory." Public Understanding of Science 12(1): 25-46.	Fred Hoyle's life-from-space theory has been communicated by Hoyle and other commentators for nearly 50 years in a wide range of media, including science fiction and museums, as well as in (he technical and popular press. This analysis uses Lewenstein's "web" model of science communication to demonstrate the connectedness of these media in a web within which life-from-space theory moves from niche to niche as different audiences become significant. Marginalization of the theory as a scientific idea meant a greater prominence in popular culture, and scientific approval made the public sphere redundant. On the basis of this case study, the paper assesses the value of the web as a research tool, and argues for science communication studies to look beyond traditional categories to embrace the wide variety of media and genres that contribute to the construction of science in the public.

Gregory, R., et al. (2012). "Deliberative Disjunction: Expert and Public Understanding of Outcome Uncertainty." Risk Analysis 32(12): 2071-2083.	Many environmental and risk management decisions are made jointly by technical experts and members of the public. Frequently, their task is to select from among management alternatives whose outcomes are subject to varying degrees of uncertainty. Although it is recognized that how this uncertainty is interpreted can significantly affect decision-making processes and choices, little research has examined similarities and differences between expert and public understandings of uncertainty. We present results from a web-based survey that directly compares expert and lay interpretations and understandings of different expressions of uncertainty in the context of evaluating the consequences of proposed environmental management actions. Participants responded to two hypothetical but realistic scenarios involving trade-offs between environmental and other objectives and were asked a series of questions about their comprehension of the uncertainty information, their preferred choice among the alternatives, and the associated difficulty and amount of effort. Results demonstrate that experts and laypersons tend to use presentations of numerical ranges and evaluative labels differently; interestingly, the observed differences between the two groups were not explained by differences in numeracy or concerns for the predicted environmental losses. These findings question many of the usual presumptions about how uncertainty should be presented as part of deliberative risk- and environmental-management processes.

Gregory, R. S. and T. A. Satterfield (2002). "Beyond perception: The experience of risk and stigma in community contexts." Risk Analysis 22(2): 347-358.	Concerns about stigmatization are an important influence on the development of risk management and communication policies for a wide range of technologies and products such as those associated with hazardous waste storage, nuclear power, and genetic engineering of plants or foods. Although much attention has been placed on the adverse economic effects of stigma, we believe that the social, psychological, and cultural impacts are often at least as significant and merit greater attention from policymakers and researchers. Evidence for these impacts of stigma is found in recent studies of resource-based communities, whose residents may be shunned by local and nonlocal publics and whose products may suffer a loss of markets, which in turn creates social and economic hardship for community residents. We examine these aspects of stigma and link descriptions of the problem and prescriptions of recommended policies to five underlying characteristics of stigma, focusing on the possible insights and contributions from trade-off analysis and narrative approaches.

Greil, A. L., et al. (2017). "Decline in ethical concerns about reproductive technologies among a representative sample of US women." Public Understanding of Science 26(7): 789-805.	Public awareness and utilization of assisted reproductive technology has been increasing, but little is known about changes in ethical concerns over time. The National Survey of Fertility Barriers, a national, probability based sample of US women, asked 2031 women the same set of questions about ethical concerns regarding six reproductive technologies on two separate occasions approximately 3 years apart. At Wave 1 (2004-2007), women had more concerns about treatments entailing the involvement of a third party than about treatments that did not. Ethical concerns declined between Wave 1 and Wave 2, but they declined faster for treatments entailing the involvement of a third party. Ethical concerns declined faster for women with greater levels of concern at Wave 1. Initial ethical concerns were higher, and there was less of a decline in ethical concerns for women with higher initial levels of religiosity.

Grevsmuhl, S. V. (2018). "Revisiting the "Ozone Hole" Metaphor: From Observational Window to Global Environmental Threat." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(1): 71-83.	In 1985, just over 30 years ago, the ozone hole made its appearance in the press as a truly global environmental threat. As one of the most important environmental issues of the twentieth century, the ozone hole is also a remarkable metaphorical, visual, and imaginary construction. This essay examines the historical trajectory of the famous ozone hole from its birth within the astronomical community at the beginning of the twentieth century to its contemporary framing as a global environmental threat. The article provides evidence why metaphors constitute a valuable object of historically informed studies of scientific practice, and shows in particular how metaphorical landscapes shift over time, mapping at the same time larger social and political developments. The essay ends by showing how scientific images and metaphorical framings interact and how they shape scientific and popular discourse on nature, as well as our understanding of the global environment.

Griffin, R. J. (2016). "Scientific uncertainty in media content: Some reflections on this special issue." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 1009-1013.
	
Griffin, R. J. and S. Dunwoody (1997). "Community structure and science framing of news about local environmental risks." Science Communication 18(4): 362-384.	When newspapers cover stories about environmental pollution, the nature of the community they serve can indirectly influence the contents of that coverage, This article describes research showing that newspapers in pluralistic (i.e., usually larger) communities are more likely than papers in homogeneous (i.e., usually smaller) communities to interpret the pollution as a science story. Framing a pollution incident as a science story makes it worse likely that the story will link the pollution to health effects, especially, when (1) newspapers in pluralistic communities are dealing with a local polluter, and (2) newspapers in homogeneous communities are writing about pollution problems outside the community. These results are consistent with the Tichenor, Donohue, and Olien conflict/consensus model, which posits that the way power is distributed in a community affects the way stories are selected and framed by local mass media.

Griffin, R. J., et al. (1995). "The Effects of Community Pluralism on Press Coverage of Health Risks from Local Environmental Contamination." Risk Analysis 15(4): 449-458.	Based on the conflict/consensus model of Tichenor, Donohue and Olien, we proposed that mass mediated information signalling that local agents are contaminating the local environment and posing health risks is conflict-generating information and, therefore, will be controlled in the interest of community stability. We expected such control to vary by community structure. A content analysis of nine months of coverage by 19 newspapers supported the hypothesis that papers in more pluralistic communities were more likely than papers in less pluralistic communities to link contamination from local agents to threats to human health in the community and to frame such stories as problems. Newspapers in less pluralistic communities were more likely to frame local contamination in the context of solutions to the problem and were more likely to link contamination to health risks if the contamination were in a distant community.

Griffin, R. J., et al. (1998). "Public reliance on risk communication channels in the wake of a Cryptosporidium outbreak." Risk Analysis 18(4): 367-375.	In the spring of 1993, about 39% of Milwaukee-area residents suffered through a nationally publicized illness brought about by cryptosporidium, a parasite that had infested the metropolitan drinking water supply. Our study, based on a telephone survey of 610 local adult residents, indicates that worry about becoming ill in the future with cryptosporidiosis relates more strongly and consistently to public reliance on, and use of, media for cryptosporidium information than do a range of risk perception and experience variables. We propose that more studies should take an audience-centered approach to understanding risk communication.

Griffin, R. J., et al. (2008). "After the flood - Anger, attribution, and the seeking of information." Science Communication 29(3): 285-315.	In an effort to understand what motivates people to attend to information about flood risks, this study applies the Risk Information Seeking and Processing model to explore how local residents responded to damaging river flooding in the Milwaukee area. The results indicate that anger at managing agencies was associated with the desire for information and active information seeking and processing, as well as with greater risk judgment of harm from future flooding, greater sense of personal efficacy, lower institutional trust, and causal attributions for flood losses as being due to poor government management.

Grimm, J. (2009). ""Teach the Controversy" The Relationship Between Sources and Frames in Reporting the Intelligent Design Debate." Science Communication 31(2): 167-186.	This study examined sources and frames in the debate over whether to teach evolution or intelligent design in public schools. A content analysis of 12 newspapers from Kansas, Ohio, and Pennsylvania was conducted to see how geography and sourcing affected the framing of the controversial science issue. Established patterns of reporting science were repeated in the news coverage, but location and sources played an important role in how the issue was framed. The frames; varied by region, suggesting a new direction for future research of framing.

Grobe, D., et al. (1999). "A model of consumers' risk perceptions toward recombinant bovine growth hormone (rhGH): The impact of risk characteristics." Risk Analysis 19(4): 661-673.	This study estimates the effect risk characteristics, described as outrage factors by Hadden, have on consumers' risk perceptions toward the food-related biotechnology, recombinant bovine growth hormone (rbGH). The outrage factors applicable to milk from rbGH treated herds are involuntary risk exposure, unfamiliarity with the product's production process, unnatural product characteristics, lack of trust in regulator's ability to protect consumers in the marketplace, and consumers' inability to distinguish milk from rbGH treated herds compared to milk from untreated herds. An empirical analysis of data from a national survey of household food shoppers reveals that outrage factors mediate risk perceptions. The results support the inclusion of outrage factors into the risk perception model for the rbGH product, as they add significantly to the explanatory power of the model and therefore reduce bias compared to a simpler model of attitudinal and demographic factors. The study indicates that outrage factors which have a significant impact on risk perceptions are the lack of trust in the FDA as a food-related information source, and perceiving no consumer benefits from farmers' use of rbGH. Communication strategies to reduce consumer risk perceptions therefore could utilize agencies perceived as more trustworthy and emphasize the benefits of rbGH use to consumers.

Groboljsek, B. and F. Mali (2012). "Daily Newspapers' Views on Nanotechnology in Slovenia." Science Communication 34(1): 30-56.	This article investigates how nanotechnology is presented and framed in Slovenian national newspapers. The focus is on the mass media's influence on citizens' perceptions of the social implications of nanotechnological progress. An empirical analysis of newspaper coverage of nanotechnology in Slovenia between 2004 and 2009 suggests that Slovenian newspapers are in an early stage of covering nanotechnology issues since they emphasize the positive aspects and scientific interpretations. Additional in-depth interviews with nanotechnologists reveal considerable dissatisfaction with the level and quality of the media's reporting of the issue of nanotechnology in Slovenia.

Grondahl, I. H., et al. (2011). "Reducing the Effort to Comprehend Risk Models: Text Labels Are Often Preferred Over Graphical Means." Risk Analysis 31(11): 1813-1831.	Risk analysis involves people with different roles and competences. The validity of the outcome depends on that they are able to communicate; ideally between themselves, but at least with or via a risk analyst. The CORAS risk modeling language has been developed to facilitate communication between stakeholders involved in the various stages of risk analysis. This article reports the results from an empirical investigation among professionals, where the purpose was to investigate how graphical effects (size, color, shape) and text labels introduced in the CORAS risk modeling language affected the understanding. The results indicate that if graphical effects are used to illustrate important information, they should also be accompanied by informative textual labels.

Grootens-Wiegers, P., et al. (2015). "Readability and Visuals in Medical Research Information Forms for Children and Adolescents." Science Communication 37(1): 89-117.	Children are often-overlooked receivers of medical information, and little research addresses their information needs. However, young children are capable of understanding medical concepts, and they express the desire to be informed. This study addresses the quality of medical research information forms for children in the Netherlands, by assessing text readability and the role of visuals. Children's reading books, nonfiction books, and textbooks were used as comparison. Seven focus groups were conducted to identify children's preferences and needs for text and supporting visuals. We argue that the use of visuals is a powerful, but neglected, tool to improve medical information for minors.

Gross, A. (2003). "Shaping science with rhetoric: The cases of Dobzhansky, Schrodinger and Wilson." Public Understanding of Science 12(1): 109-110.
	
Gross, M. (2007). "Communicating ignorance and the development of post-mining landscapes." Science Communication 29(2): 264-270.	Scientific knowledge is always limited by ignorance. This essay discusses the design of landscapes altered by strip-mining in East Germany, which started with a clear acknowledgement of the limits of knowing as a foundation for acting in the face of ignorance. However, after more than 15 years, communication about the limits of knowing in landscape design is increasingly founded on the belief that uncertainty and risk need to be answered with more certainty via expert knowledge, which has led to a development stalemate or "lock-in." This observation supports the thesis that laying open the limits of scientific knowledge to the public can improve public confidence in applied research and thus open new room to maneuver at the local level.

Gross, M. (2011). "Democratizing scientific uncertainty." Public Understanding of Science 20(6): 863-864.
	
Gross, M. (2013). "Old Science Fiction, New Inspiration: Communicating Unknowns in the Utilization of Geothermal Energy." Science Communication 35(6): 810-818.	Although it is implicitly acknowledged that many aspects of contemporary geothermal energy utilization are shrouded in ignorance, this is rarely appreciated or in any way well communicated. Using Jules Verne's science fiction novel A Journey to the Center of the Earth as a means to highlight the inevitable normality of knowledge gaps and uncertainty, certain aspects are discussed that can be applied to communication strategies regarding the unknown in current geothermal energy utilization. This may be important given that risk assessments can often not be communicated meaningfully to citizens and decision makers.

Gross, M. (2016). "Science Transformed? Debating Claims of an Epochal Break." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 126-128.
	
Gross, M. (2016). "Science Unshackled: How Obscure, Abstract, Seemingly Useless Scientific Research Turned Out to Be the Basis for Modern Life." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 126-128.
	
Gross, M. (2016). "The Politics of Invisibility: Public Knowledge about Radiation Health Effects after Chernobyl." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 126-128.
	
Gross, M. (2016). "The Customization of Science: The Impact of Religious and Political Worldviews on Contemporary Science." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 126-128.
	
Gross, M. and H. Hoffmann-Riem (2005). "Ecological restoration as a real-world experiment: designing robust implementation strategies in an urban environment." Public Understanding of Science 14(3): 269-284.	The concept of real-world experiments is a framework to understand environmental design projects under real world conditions. Contrary to laboratory experiments that are generally thought to exclude the public, real-world experiments involve combinations of social and natural factors. In this paper the theory of real-world experiments is applied to the fieldwork of ecological restoration. The case discussed here is an ecological design process at Montrose Point, a peninsula built on landfill in Lake Michigan on the North Side of Chicago. It illustrates how, in the practice of ecological restoration, the idea of experiment can be understood as being built on processes of recursive learning that include different parts of the wider society and nature. The paper outlines a concept of robust implementation strategies in which public involvement is a pivotal part of a more encompassing activity of ecological practice. This is undertaken to aim at a better understanding of learning processes taking place in natural and social systems.

Grossman, K. (2005). "Review: Alternative media aims at environmental issues." Science Communication 27(2): 317-320.
	
Grossman, K. (2006). "The E-bomb: How America's new directed energy weapons will change the way future wars will be fought." Science Communication 27(3): 448-450.
	
Grossman, K. (2010). "Truth, Lies, and O'Rings: Inside the Space Shuttle Challenger Disaster." Science Communication 32(1): 130-132.
	
Groulx, M., et al. (2017). "A Role for Nature-Based Citizen Science in Promoting Individual and Collective Climate Change Action? A Systematic Review of Learning Outcomes." Science Communication 39(1): 45-76.	As a model of communication and engagement, citizen science has the potential to promote individual and collective climate change action. This article systematically reviewed literature that jointly addressed climate change and nature-based citizen science and identified 23 reported learning outcomes. Overall, evidence related to learning outcomes was limited across reviewed studies, but documentation of outcomes that are directly relevant to collective climate action was particularly scarce. Findings suggest more research examining citizen science from a collective climate action perspective is needed. To support future research efforts, results link the 23 revealed learning outcomes to two potential evaluation frameworks.

Groves, T., et al. (2016). "Ten years of science news: A longitudinal analysis of scientific culture in the Spanish digital press." Public Understanding of Science 25(6): 691-705.	This article presents our study of science coverage in the digital Spanish press over the last decade. We employed automated information retrieval procedures to create a corpus of 50,763 text units dealing with science and technology, and used automated text-analysis procedures in order to provide a general picture of the structure, characteristics and evolution of science news in Spain. We found between 6% and 7% of science coverage, a clear high proportion of biomedicine and predominance of science over technology, although we also detected an increase in technological content during the second half of the decade. Analysing the extrinsic and intrinsic features of science culture, we found a predominance of intrinsic features that still need further analysis. Our attempt to use specialised software to examine big data was effective, and allowed us to reach these preliminary conclusions.

Gruber, D. and J. A. Dickerson (2012). "Persuasive images in popular science: Testing judgments of scientific reasoning and credibility." Public Understanding of Science 21(8): 938-948.	This article tested the assumption that functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) images in popular science news articles make those articles appear more reasonable and persuasive to readers. In addition to fMRI images, this study also examined the potential impact of science fiction and artistic images commonly found in popular news articles. 183 undergraduates were asked to evaluate one of four versions of an article, each with a different image. The researchers discovered no significant differences between readers' evaluations of the news article with the images isolated as the only independent variable. This suggests that images alone may not have a strong effect upon evaluation, that no image is necessarily more persuasive than another as implied by earlier studies and that further research is needed to determine what, if any, role images play in conjunction with the text to create a persuasive effect.

Grubert, E. (2017). "Response to "Discourse over a contested technology on Twitter: A case study of hydraulic fracturing"Word choice as political speech." Public Understanding of Science 26(1): 121-123.	Hopke and Simis (Public Understanding of Science, online 4 October 2015) find that #fracking, the most popular of five shale-related hashtags analyzed from a 2013 period, is associated with pro-shale attitudes only 13% of the time and note that the dominant voice of the activist community, coupled with a lack of engagement from industry, is unexpected. This comment offers additional perspective on the sentiment- and actor-skewed result by noting that the term fracking is highly political, specifically because the spelling frack versus frac is associated with activism. Furthermore, in public speech, the industry tends to deemphasize the hydraulic fracturing process in favor of the product, consistent with the findings that #natgas is a relatively pro-industry hashtag.

Grundmann, R. and M. Scott (2014). "Disputed climate science in the media: Do countries matter?" Public Understanding of Science 23(2): 220-235.	This article presents findings from a large-scale newspaper analysis of climate change discourses in four developed countries, using corpus linguistics methodology. We map the discourse over time, showing peaks and troughs of attention and explaining their causes. Different connotations of common terms such as global warming and climate change in different countries are analysed. Cluster and key-word analysis show the relative salience of specific words and word combinations during crucial periods. We identify main claims makers and the relative visibility of advocates and sceptics. The main finding is that former are far more prominent in all countries. We also look at the coverage of climategate'. Finally, we make reference to existing theoretical frameworks.

Gschmeidler, B. and A. Seiringer (2012). ""Knight in shining armour" or "Frankenstein's creation"? The coverage of synthetic biology in German-language media." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 163-173.	Although still a side issue in the German-language media, attention towards synthetic biology has risen clearly during the last years, in line with the first applications being presented. This paper presents findings from a content analysis of synthetic biology coverage in German-language media over the years 2004-2009. In the media, synthetic biology is not clearly separated from gene technology. News value is attributed to established categories such as persons and events. Many metaphors and analogies used in describing gene technology can also be found in the coverage of synthetic biology; however, engineering metaphors are more prominent. In addition, playfulness constitutes an aspect rarely found in genetic engineering coverage. Overall, the picture emerging is ambivalent, which leaves prospects for the further development of public debate ambiguous.

Guenther, L. and G. Ruhrmann (2016). "Scientific evidence and mass media: Investigating the journalistic intention to represent scientific uncertainty." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 927-943.	Science journalists are responsible for the mass media's representation of life sciences (e.g. biotechnology, genetics, and nanotechnology) and for the depiction of research findings in these areas as more scientifically (un)certain. Although researchers have determined that the representational styles of scientific evidence vary among science journalists, the reasons for these differences have not yet been fully investigated. Against this background, for the first time, the present study applies a reasoned action approach and investigates the predictors of the journalistic intention to represent scientific uncertainty, using computer-assisted telephone interviews with a representative sample of German science journalists (n=202). The results indicate that beliefs about the coverage of other media, perceptions regarding scientific uncertainty of the main field of coverage, perceived expectations of the audience, past behavior, and gender were the predictors that most strongly affected the journalists' intention to represent life sciences as more scientifically uncertain.

Guenther, L. and P. Weingart (2018). "Promises and reservations towards science and technology among South African publics: A culture-sensitive approach." Public Understanding of Science 27(1): 47-58.	Against the background that surveys measuring public perceptions of science and technology are often removed from cultural contexts and do not equally represent all regions of the world, this study investigated attitudes towards science and technology among different publics of the South African population. To apply a culture-sensitive approach, theoretical considerations of cultural distance were combined with methodological considerations of segmentation studies, and representative data (n=3183) were reanalysed. The findings show that six South African publics can be distinguished, and that - despite the fact that all publics see more promises of science than reservations - there tend to be sensitive differences between these publics. In the long run, such findings might help to make science communication more effective.

Guenther, L., et al. (2018). ""Science is Everywhere, but No One Knows It": Assessing the Cultural Distance to Science of Rural South African Publics." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(8): 1046-1061.	In science communication, a prerequisite for reaching different parts of a society is to find out how these publics experience and interpret science. Since rural South African publics are perceived to exhibit a large cultural distance to science, the present exploratory study aimed to know in more detail how rural South Africans perceive and understand science in their local and social contexts. Theoretical notions on cultural distance and the methodological approach of segmentation studies were considered. Semi-structured interviews with rural South Africans were carried out in four towns (n = 52) that differ with respect to having a large scientific installation in their vicinity, or not. Sensitively comparing local and social contexts helped identifying three different publics who differed regarding their perceptions of science; however, the large scientific installations only made a difference in perceptions for those publics who were generally less exposed to and less knowledgeable about science.

Gunnarsdottir, K. and K. Rommetveit (2017). "The biometric imaginary: (Dis)trust in a policy vacuum." Public Understanding of Science 26(2): 195-211.	The decision in Europe to implement biometric passports, visas and residence permits was made at the highest levels without much consultation, checks and balances. Council regulation came into force relatively unnoticed in January 2005, as part of wider securitization policies urging systems interoperability and data sharing across borders. This article examines the biometric imaginary that characterizes this European Union decision, dictated by executive powers in the policy vacuum after 9/11 - a depiction of mobility governance, technological necessity and whom/what to trust or distrust, calling upon phantom publics to justify decisions rather than test their grounding. We consult an online blog we operated in 2010 to unravel this imaginary years on. Drawing on Dewey's problem of the public, we discuss this temporary opening of a public space in which the imaginary could be reframed and contested, and how such activities may shape, if at all, relations between politics, publics, policy intervention and societal development.

Gunster, S. (2017). "This changes everything: capitalism vs the climate." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(1): 136-138.
	
Gunster, S., et al. (2018). "Climate hypocrisies: A comparative study of news discourse (vol 12, pg 773, 2018)." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(6): X-X.
	
Gunster, S., et al. (2018). "Climate Hypocrisies: A Comparative Study of News Discourse." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(6): 773-793.	This paper conducts a comparative study of how the idea of hypocrisy was invoked in media coverage of climate change in 12 newspapers from four countries (Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States) between 2005 and 2015. It develops the concepts, and explores the characteristics, of three distinct types of climate hypocrisy: personalized (which attacks the moral character of individuals based on inconsistencies between their stated beliefs and behavior); institutional-analytic (which identifies contradictions between institutional rhetoric and ongoing policies and practices); and reflexive (which develops sympathetic accounts of the struggles individuals face in reconciling the tension between values and actions). It explores how these types are used to undermine the credibility of climate advocates as well as to argue for more aggressive climate action, and maps out key features of climate hypocrisy discourse including ideological attributes, targeted actors and behaviors, affective intensity, and regional variations. It outlines a number of surprising key findings, such as (i) hypocrisy discourses are more frequently invoked by progressives supporting climate change action than by conservatives resisting climate change action, and (ii) while both groups use hypocrisy discourse, they tend to use very different types of hypocrisy discourses which each likely have very different impacts on climate change discourse.

Gunter, B., et al. (1999). "The media and public understanding of biotechnology - A survey of scientists and journalists." Science Communication 20(4): 373-394.	An exploratory survey was conducted to investigate the perceptions and opinions of two important "expert" groups-scientists and journalists. Scientists working in the biotechnology field and journalists who had written or broadcast about it were regarded as key players in the communication of information about scientific developments to the lay population. This research showed that both groups agreed that the media have an important part to play in informing the public about biotechnology. Scientists were more likely than journalists to perceive coverage as too sensational and dramatic, too speculative, with too muck emphasis on risks. Scientists did not exhibit much trust in journalists, even though journalists were as likely nr scientists to agree that media reporting of biotechnology should be sober; balanced, and focused on the facts. Both groups also agreed that journalists need to ensure they are technically prepared when reporting on complex science issues. Scientists probably needed more media training and support from their own professional culture to facilitate more effective relations with media professionals and the public.

Gupta, N., et al. (2012). "Socio-psychological determinants of public acceptance of technologies: A review." Public Understanding of Science 21(7): 782-795.	Historically, many technologies have been associated with societal controversies, leading to public rejection of their use. It is therefore important to understand the psychological determinants of societal acceptance of emerging technologies. Socio-psychological determinants of public acceptance of 10 (controversial) technologies are reviewed. The results indicate that there has been an increased interest in and focus on public acceptance of technologies in academia. Risk, trust, perceived benefit, knowledge, individual differences and attitude were found to have been a focus of research in 60% of articles. The results of correspondence analysis suggest that some determinants have been used more extensively in association with some technologies compared to others. As the published research has predominantly been conducted in North America and Europe, research across different cultural contexts internationally is required if globally relevant conclusions are to be reached. Implications for future research are discussed.

Gurabardhi, Z., et al. (2004). "The development of risk communication." Science Communication 25(4): 323-349.	This article describes the development of risk communication in the environmental and technological domain by systematically analyzing the literature as it is available through scientific journals. In total, 349 articles published between 1988 and 2000 were, analyzed, with three research questions in mind: How can we characterize the risk communication literature? Do trends exist in risk communication literature? and What do scientific indicators tell us about the nature of the published papers on risk communication? The articles were sampled from the online databases of Web of Science. Results indicate that risk communication currently is dominated by a few important writers from the Western world and one very influential journal, and that desk research/narrative essays are published most frequently. This article also observes a steadily climbing number of publications, scientists from various backgrounds, and identifiable nodes of high production. Several recommendations for future developments in risk communication are made.

Gurabardhi, Z., et al. (2005). "An empirical analysis of communication flow, strategy and stakeholders' participation in the risk communication literature 1988-2000." Journal of Risk Research 8(6): 499-511.	Risk communication during the years has shown its vitality and has proved its importance as a field of research. This article provides a brief record of the development of risk communication in the environmental and technological domain by examining some of the trends resulting from the analysis of the theoretical and empirical literature in the field, as it is available through scientific journals. In total, 349 peer-reviewed articles published between 1988 and 2000 and listed in the ISI Web of Science databases were analyzed. The theoretical perspective that we use is that of control mutuality, which emphasizes the interaction between the parties in the risk decision-making process and their mutual influence, rather than simply unidirectional control of one stakeholder over the other. It echoes the democratic perspective, but also considers the rationality of the technical standpoint.
The results indicate that over the whole period there is an increase in published articles on risk communication. As expected, we found a gradual decrease in the articles referring to a one-way flow of risk communication and an increase of those concerned with two-way communication. We also observed a gradual increase in the articles referring to stakeholder participation in risk decisions in the last period. No differences were found with respect to risk communication strategy.

Gurmankin, A. D., et al. (2004). "Intended message versus message received in hypothetical physician risk communications: Exploring the gap." Risk Analysis 24(5): 1337-1347.	We examined the risk perception that is derived from hypothetical physician risk communications. Subjects (n = 217) completed a questionnaire on the Web for $3. Subjects were presented with four hypothetical cancer risk scenarios that included a physician risk communication in one of three risk communication formats: verbal only, verbal plus numeric probability as a percent, and verbal plus numeric probability as a fraction. In each scenario, subjects were asked to imagine themselves as the patient described and to state their perceived personal susceptibility to the cancer (i.e., risk perception) on a 0 to 100 scale, as well as responses to other measures. Subjects' risk perceptions were highly variable, spanning nearly the entire probability scale for each scenario, and the degree of variation was only slightly less in the risk communication formats in which a numeric statement of risk was provided. Subjects were more likely to overestimate than underestimate their risk relative to the stated risk in the numeric versions, and overestimation was associated with the belief that the physician minimized the risk so they wouldn't worry, innumeracy, and worry, as well as decisions about testing for the cancer. These results demonstrate significant gaps between the intended message and the message received in physician risk communications. Implications for medical decisions, patient distress, and future research are discussed.

Gustafson, A. and R. E. Rice (2016). "Cumulative Advantage in Sustainability Communication: Unintended Implications of the Knowledge Deficit Model." Science Communication 38(6): 800-811.	The knowledge deficit model proposes that more information increases public knowledge levels about a given topic and thus leads to improved attitudes and practice. However, research critiques the varying and limited ability of the deficit model. We argue that the deficit model can also produce an unintended cumulative advantage system: growing inequality between and within the knowledge-attitude-practice (KAP) gap of individuals and groups due to a wide variety of possible moderators. Over time, these effects can exacerbate gaps between individuals' and groups' levels of KAP. We discuss the negative effects of increasing inequality in sustainability KAP and provide recommendations for future research.

Gustafsson, K. M. (2017). "Narrating the Monarch Butterfly: Managing Knowledge Complexity and Uncertainty in Coproduction of a Collective Narrative and Public Discourse." Science Communication 39(4): 492-519.	In January 2014, the monarch butterfly reached North American political agendas due to reports of a long-term population decline. Requests were made for reliable descriptions of what was known about the butterfly, its population and migration, and the actions needed to protect it. This article studies the construction of the collective narrative that has come to dominate the public discourse on the butterfly. The analysis demonstrates how complexity and uncertainty in monarch knowledge have been managed through a process of coproduction, where focus has been on emphasizing knowledge certainty by portraying science and conservation as two separate but dependent social spheres.

Guston, D. H. (2002). "Science, money, and politics: Political triumph and ethical erosion." Public Understanding of Science 11(1): 80-81.
	
Guston, D. H. (2014). "Building the capacity for public engagement with science in the United States." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 53-59.	This paper reviews efforts of the Center for Nanotechnology in Society at Arizona State University (CNS-ASU) to begin to build capacity for public engagement with science in the United States. First, the paper sets a context in the US of the current challenges to democracy and for science. It then reviews the literature on the accomplishments of the National Citizens' Technology Forum (NCTF) on nanotechnology and human enhancement, held in 2008, as well as some caveats that emerged from that enterprise. It concludes with a brief discussion of two kinds of activities - participation in the World Wide Views process organized by the Danish Board of Technology, and methodological innovations that include more concrete and experiential modes of engagement - that have spun off from the NCTF.

Gutierrez, V. V., et al. (2006). "The influence of information delivery on risk ranking by lay people." Journal of Risk Research 9(6): 641-655.	An experiment was conducted in a real environment to test how information delivery affects risk ranking. Another aim was to propose the best format for delivering information. Different people received different types of information about risks in a risk ranking exercise: Group 1 received a descriptive paragraph about the hazards (Format 1); Group 2 added a table with specific information on risk attributes (Format 2); Group 3 added information on the steps taken locally to mitigate the risks (Format 3), and Group 4 received a data table without identifying the hazard (Format 4). Agreement among subjects' rankings within a group and from group to group was used to measure the potential impact of information delivery. Average pair-wise Spearman correlation was used to compare the level of agreement within each group. Results showed greater consensus in the group using Format 4 than in Formats 1, 2, and 3, with the only significant difference between Format 4 and each one of the others. The results show that the amount of information, and the way it is delivered, may affect how lay people rank risks, but the differences are not statistically significant.

Gutteling, J., et al. (2006). "Trust in governance and the acceptance of genetically modified food in the Netherlands." Public Understanding of Science 15(1): 103-112.	This paper assumes that trust is a major issue in the interaction between government, citizens and societal organizations. The central question in this paper relates to the specific determinants of public trust. A survey study is reported (n = 1019) which focuses on the role of trust in the acceptance of genetically modified (GM) food. Our expectation was that three types of trust: "trust in governance," "trust in government," and "trust in NGOs" would be important predictors of the public acceptance of GM food. The data were collected in the summer of 2001 in the context of the formal Dutch public debate on GM food. The results indicate that 42 percent of the respondents do not trust developments in GM food. Only a third of the sample does trust the government with respect to GM food developments. Approximately 50 percent of the respondents express a high level of trust in non-governmental organizations for this issue. The data further show that trust in governance seems to be an important constraint for the further development of GM food in the Netherlands. With higher levels of trust in governance people have a more positive attitude toward GM food, are more likely to accept it, and are more optimistic about technological developments.

Gutteling, J. M. (2002). "Biotechnoiogy in the Netherlands: controversy or consensus?" Public Understanding of Science 11(2): 131-142.	This paper addresses the issue of public perception of modern biotechnology in the Netherlands. Contrary to expectations, data from the 1999 Eurobarometer on biotechnology indicate that the position of the Dutch public in general is rather ambiguous, which is in contrast to many of its neighboring countries. The issue is described in terms of differences between the Netherlands and other European countries on political-economic, social-cultural, or media coverage indicators. On many indicators, the Dutch population differs from that of other European countries, and the Dutch opinion-leading media present a rather balanced perspective on modern biotechnology.

Gutteling, J. M. and P. W. de Vries (2017). "Determinants of Seeking and Avoiding Risk-Related Information in Times of Crisis." Risk Analysis 37(1): 27-39.	This research is designed to provide insight into the psychological (e.g., threat appraisal or coping appraisal) and other determinants (e.g., information quality judgments or demographics) of risk information seeking or avoidance in times of an acute risk, as part of the process of increasing public resilience through adherence to risk mitigating advice. Data were collected via telephone interviews. A specialized agency interviewed 1,000 Dutch citizens, randomly confronted with one of eight fictitious, but realistic, acute risk and emergency situations. Results indicate that information seeking in an acute situation is anticipated by a less elaborate set of predictors (age and risk perception) than information seeking in a nonacute situation (age and risk perception, as well as educational level and social norm). Although risk perception is a predictor for risk information seeking, its predictive value for acute-risk-related behavior, as one might have assumed based on theories such as protection motivation theory (PMT) or the extended parallel process model (EPPM), appears to be limited. Implications for risk communication are discussed.

Gyrd-Hansen, D., et al. (2003). "How do individuals apply risk information when choosing among health care interventions?" Risk Analysis 23(4): 697-704.	A sample of 3,201 Danes was subjected to personal interviews in which they were asked to state their preferences for risk-reducing health care interventions based on information on absolute risk reduction (ARR) and relative risk reduction (RRR). The aim of the study was to measure the relative weighting of different types of risk information under various circumstances. The effect of presenting questions, and of explicitly formulating RRR, was analyzed. A preference for increases in RRR was demonstrated. There was a stronger inclination to choose the intervention that offered the highest RRR if RRR was explicitly stated. Individuals with more than 10 years of schooling also demonstrated a preference for increased ARR, but only when facing individually framed choices. In a social choice context, preferences for RRR remained intact, but the magnitude of ARR had no impact on choices. Results imply that social framing may induce a propensity to prefer interventions that target high-risk populations. Those respondents who had received less than or equal to10 years of schooling demonstrated preferences for RRR but not ARR, and no impact of social framing was observed.

Hadden, S. G. (1989). "Institutional Barriers to Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 9(3): 301-308.
	
Haddow, G., et al. (2011). "Can the governance of a population genetic data bank effect recruitment? Evidence from the public consultation of Generation Scotland." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 117-129.	Our objective was to identify an acceptable governance model for population genetic data banks through measuring the importance of different ethical and social concerns and their relationship to reported likelihood to participate. We conducted a face-to-face interview survey of 1,001 members of the general adult Scottish population who were 16 and over, and included a discrete choice experiment. The results showed a quarter of respondents said that they were certain or very likely to take part in genetic database research. However, reported willingness to participate seemed to be unaffected by further information or governance options. We conclude participation is driven by personal and mundane, everyday factors rather than concerns about governance. However, this should not be seen as a reason to relax the transparent and robust governance frameworks currently under development.

Hagedorn, C. and S. AllenderHagedorn (1997). "Issues in agricultural and environmental biotechnology: Identifying and comparing biotechnology issues from public opinion surveys, the popular press and technical/regulatory sources." Public Understanding of Science 6(3): 233-245.	The formation of public perceptions of science is a very complex and problematic process, but a major factor is the information that is available and presented most frequently to the public. Issues of public concern over agricultural and environmental biotechnology were identified from opinion surveys, the popular press and technical/regulatory sources. A frequency index based on content analysis was used to rank issues within categories of genetically engineered foods, plants, animals and microorganisms; and the social/legal, risk assessment/regulation, science education and international aspects. These issues were compared to those similarly identified from scientific/regulatory sources. Results revealed that the scientific/regulatory communities have dealt primarily with one subset of issues (research oriented), while the public is largely concerned with a different subset (issues of ethics, safety and value). This paper describes each issue in detail, and the implications of the two subsets of issues are briefly discussed.

Hagelin, J., et al. (2003). "An overview of surveys on how people view animal experimentation: some factors that may influence the outcome." Public Understanding of Science 12(1): 67-81.	Many factors may influence the outcome of surveys on how people view the use of animals in research. Some aspects are related to the instrument used, whereas others are related to the characteristics of the respondents. Conducted in Western countries, the study is primarily a review of 56 surveys targeting scientists, students, and the public. Surveys were obtained from searching online databases and reference lists, or directly from authors whose surveys were not otherwise available. Factors related to the instrument listed include the questionnaire used and wording of questions. Factors related to the respondent include age, gender, upbringing, religion, knowledge, education, and practical experience. Results demonstrate that there was great discrepancy in acceptance/opposition estimations reported in different surveys. It is concluded that interpretation and comparison of results from different surveys should be made with caution.

Hagemann, K. S. and J. Scholderer (2007). "Consumer versus expert hazard identification: A mental models study of mutation-bred rice." Journal of Risk Research 10(4): 449-464.	Novel foods have been the object of intense public debate in recent years. Despite efforts to communicate the outcomes of risk assessments to consumers, public confidence in the management of potential risks has been low. Various reasons behind this have been identified, chiefly a disagreement between technical experts and consumers over the nature of the hazards on which risk assessments should focus, and perceptions of insufficient openness about uncertainties in risk assessment. Whilst previous research has almost exclusively focused on genetically modified foods, the present paper investigates plant varieties developed by means of mutation breeding, a less-debated class of novel foods. Two studies were conducted that investigated the mental models of experts and laypeople. The results revealed that the mental models of both groups differed in terms of scope, depth and the role of uncertainty. Furthermore, a number of misconceptions became apparent in the study of laypeople's mental models, often related to the regulatory system governing risk assessments of novel foods. Critical issue are outlined and communication needs are discussed.

Hagmann, J. (2012). "Fukushima: probing the analytical and epistemological limits of risk analysis." Journal of Risk Research 15(7): 801-815.	The Fukushima catastrophe tragically epitomizes the limitations of dealing with natural and technical hazards. Remarkably yet, authorities' review of the catastrophe continue to be limited to mistakes and responsibilities of practical risk management. Although state regulations are questioned, technical protection measures verified, and disaster management processes optimized, no deeper discussion about the actual analytical limits of risk analysis has been engaged thus far. What can risk analyses address and what remains beyond their scope? How trustworthy can risk analyses be, and what kind of statements about the future can they actually formulate? This article examines these broader analytical and epistemological boundaries of risk analysis. Drawing on cases of international nuclear risk management, it tests and problematizes how the definition of risk, the methodology of their registration, and the interpretation of results are reaching their limitations in contemporary risk analysis. Following this critical discussion of risk analysis, the article draws conclusions concerning the usefulness and necessity of a differentiated and informed discourse on the potential and the limitations of the risk analysis method, an approach which today enjoys increasing popularity in a variety of policy sectors ranging from critical infrastructure protection to national and international security.

Haider, J. (2016). "The Shaping of Environmental Information in Social Media: Affordances and Technologies of Self-control." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(4): 473-491.	This article studies environmental information as it circulates in social media, specifically in personal blogs and microblogs. It rests on a thematic analysis of a selection of Swedish language, personal, everyday life environment blogs active during 2011 and 2012 and the social media applications connected to these blogs. Gibson's concept of affordances and Foucault's notion of governmentality are brought together to examine how material and technological affordances of social media and the structures of governmentality work together to engender a type of information on environmentally friendly living that is rooted in the conditions of the Web, together with a view of society which is structured around choice and individual responsibility. The article argues that information is woven into the texture of the social on every level, including everyday life practices, and hence social media, as tools in such practices, contribute to shaping the way in which information on environmentally friendly living is articulated, shaped, and filled with meaning.

Haimes, Y. Y. (2011). "On the Complex Quantification of Risk: Systems-Based Perspective on Terrorism." Risk Analysis 31(8): 1175-1186.	This article highlights the complexity of the quantification of the multidimensional risk function, develops five systems-based premises on quantifying the risk of terrorism to a threatened system, and advocates the quantification of vulnerability and resilience through the states of the system. The five premises are: (i) There exists interdependence between a specific threat to a system by terrorist networks and the states of the targeted system, as represented through the system's vulnerability, resilience, and criticality-impact. (ii) A specific threat, its probability, its timing, the states of the targeted system, and the probability of consequences can be interdependent. (iii) The two questions in the risk assessment process: "What is the likelihood?" and "What are the consequences?" can be interdependent. (iv) Risk management policy options can reduce both the likelihood of a threat to a targeted system and the associated likelihood of consequences by changing the states (including both vulnerability and resilience) of the system. (v) The quantification of risk to a vulnerable system from a specific threat must be built on a systemic and repeatable modeling process, by recognizing that the states of the system constitute an essential step to construct quantitative metrics of the consequences based on intelligence gathering, expert evidence, and other qualitative information. The fact that the states of all systems are functions of time (among other variables) makes the time frame pivotal in each component of the process of risk assessment, management, and communication. Thus, risk to a system, caused by an initiating event (e. g., a threat) is a multidimensional function of the specific threat, its probability and time frame, the states of the system (representing vulnerability and resilience), and the probabilistic multidimensional consequences.

Haimes, Y. Y. (2012). "Systems-Based Guiding Principles for Risk Modeling, Planning, Assessment, Management, and Communication." Risk Analysis 32(9): 1451-1467.	This article is grounded on the premise that the complex process of risk assessment, management, and communication, when applied to systems of systems, should be guided by universal systems-based principles. It is written from the perspective of systems engineering with the hope and expectation that the principles introduced here will be supplemented and complemented by principles from the perspectives of other disciplines. Indeed, there is no claim that the following 10 guiding principles constitute a complete set; rather, the intent is to initiate a discussion on this important subject that will incrementally lead us to a more complete set of guiding principles. The 10 principles are as follows: First Principle: Holism is the common denominator that bridges risk analysis and systems engineering. Second Principle: The process of risk modeling, assessment, management, and communication must be systemic and integrated. Third Principle: Models and state variables are central to quantitative risk analysis. Fourth Principle: Multiple models are required to represent the essence of the multiple perspectives of complex systems of systems. Fifth Principle: Meta-modeling and subsystems integration must be derived from the intrinsic states of the system of systems. Sixth Principle: Multiple conflicting and competing objectives are inherent in risk management. Seventh Principle: Risk analysis must account for epistemic and aleatory uncertainties. Eighth Principle: Risk analysis must account for risks of low probability with extreme consequences. Ninth Principle: The time frame is central to quantitative risk analysis. Tenth Principle: Risk analysis must be holistic, adaptive, incremental, and sustainable, and it must be supported with appropriate data collection, metrics with which to measure efficacious progress, and criteria on the basis of which to act. The relevance and efficacy of each guiding principle is demonstrated by applying it to the U. S. Federal Aviation Administration complex Next Generation (NextGen) system of systems.

Haimes, Y. Y. (2018). "Risk Modeling of Interdependent Complex Systems of Systems: Theory and Practice." Risk Analysis 38(1): 84-98.	The emergence of the complexity characterizing our systems of systems (SoS) requires a reevaluation of the way we model, assess, manage, communicate, and analyze the risk thereto. Current models for risk analysis of emergent complex SoS are insufficient because too often they rely on the same risk functions and models used for single systems. These models commonly fail to incorporate the complexity derived from the networks of interdependencies and interconnectedness (I-I) characterizing SoS. There is a need to reevaluate currently practiced risk analysis to respond to this reality by examining, and thus comprehending, what makes emergent SoS complex. The key to evaluating the risk to SoS lies in understanding the genesis of characterizing I-I of systems manifested through shared states and other essential entities within and among the systems that constitute SoS. The term " essential entities" includes shared decisions, resources, functions, policies, decisionmakers, stakeholders, organizational setups, and others. This undertaking can be accomplished by building on state-space theory, which is fundamental to systems engineering and process control. This article presents a theoretical and analytical framework for modeling the risk to SoS with two case studies performed with the MITRE Corporation and demonstrates the pivotal contributions made by shared states and other essential entities to modeling and analysis of the risk to complex SoS. A third case study highlights the multifarious representations of SoS, which require harmonizing the risk analysis process currently applied to single systems when applied to complex SoS.

Halkier, B. (2017). "Mundane science use in a practice theoretical perspective: Different understandings of the relations between citizen-consumers and public communication initiatives build on scientific claims." Public Understanding of Science 26(1): 40-54.	Public communication initiatives play a part in placing complicated scientific claims in citizen-consumers' everyday contexts. Lay reactions to scientific claims framed in public communication, and attempts to engage citizens, have been important subjects of discussion in the literatures of public understanding and public engagement with science. Many of the public communication initiatives, however, address lay people as consumers rather than citizens. This creates specific challenges for understanding public engagement with science and scientific citizenship. The article compares five different understandings of the relations between citizen-consumers and public issue communication involving science, where the first four types are widely represented in the Public Understanding of Science discussions. The fifth understanding is a practice theoretical perspective. The article suggests how the public understanding of and engagement in science literature can benefit from including a practice theoretical approach to research about mundane science use and public engagement.

Hall, R. (1997). "Knowledge use and the dynamics of managing curriculum change." Science Communication 18(4): 342-361.	This article explores the relationships between knowledge use (KU) and curriculum change management. Managing or coping with curriculum change has been conceptualized as consisting of a technical dynamic, a political dynamic, and a cultural dynamic. A parallel line of thinking can be detected in the KU literature in that the functions which KU serves may be for instrumental, capacity-building, or enlightenment purposes. This study investigates the relationship between KU and change management with respect to these three dynamics. The political dynamics of the implementation process stand out as being a particularly important correlate of KU.

Halpern, M. K. (2012). "Across the great divide: Boundaries and boundary objects in art and science." Public Understanding of Science 21(8): 922-937.	This paper explores collaboration between artists and scientists through participant observation. Four artist/scientist pairs worked together to create ten-minute performances for a festival held in January, 2009 in Ithaca, New York. Each pair created their piece over the course of three two-hour meetings, the first of which employed a cultural probe to open a discourse between the artist and scientist and to facilitate collaboration. My role as a participant observer allowed me to closely observe collaborative processes in which pairs engaged in boundary work and made use of boundary objects. The boundary work helped the pairs establish authority and autonomy within their respective sub-fields, while at the same time provoking discussions that led to the creation of their projects. The pairs used three types of boundary objects: existing, created, and appropriated. These established a common language by which they could create and present their performances to an audience.

Halvorsen, K. (2018). "Rhetorical accounts of risk: interprofessional risk assessment in operational planning meetings." Journal of Risk Research 21(7): 854-868.	In the context of high-risk industries, risk assessment takes place not only through standardized methods for risk analysis, but is frequently negotiated and discussed as an integral part of operational decision-making. This is not least the case in the context of operational planning. Frequent changes in operations require ongoing assessment of risk as tasks are rescheduled and resources reallocated. The current study explores how professionals account for the presence or absence of risk in a setting in which risk analysis is not the primary objective. With data from the offshore petroleum industry, the rhetorical aspects of risk assessments are examined. A series of interprofessional planning meetings were video recorded, transcribed, and analyzed using a rhetorical discourse analytic framework. The data are analyzed at a micro-interactional level in order to study how accounts of risk are presented and negotiated in this particular setting. The meaning and consequences of operational plan changes, and their implications for safety, are seen as negotiated discursively through interprofessional meeting talk. The analysis shows that accounts of risk are characterized by shifting rhetorical strategies that can be heard to echo established risk discourses often referred to as technico-scientific' and contextualized' conceptions of risk. Rhetorical devices are used interchangeably and strategically by the participants as they account for risk from their respective institutional positions and their specific areas of expertise and responsibility. The accounts are found to be increasingly persuasive and rhetorical in style as disagreements over risk and prioritizations surface. Accounts of risk, then, are not simply objective presentations of probability and consequence, but rather powerful tools for achieving specific professional outcomes. The study contributes to the understanding of risk assessment at its most concrete and practical level; as it takes place through professional interaction in an operational setting.

Hamalainen, R. P., et al. (2000). "Multiattribute risk analysis in nuclear emergency management." Risk Analysis 20(4): 455-467.	Radiation protection authorities have seen a potential for applying multiattribute risk analysis in nuclear emergency management and planning to deal with conflicting objectives, different parties involved, and uncertainties. This type of approach is expected to help in the following areas: to ensure that all relevant attributes are considered in decision making; to enhance communication between the concerned parties, including the public; and to provide a method fur explicitly including risk analysis in the process. A multiattribute utility theory analysis was used to select a strategy for protecting the population after a simulated nuclear accident. The value-focused approach and the use of a neutral facilitator were identified as being useful.

Hambach, R., et al. (2011). "Workers' Perception of Chemical Risks: A Focus Group Study." Risk Analysis 31(2): 335-342.	Workers' perceptions with respect to health and safety at work are rarely taken into account when considering the development of prevention programs. The aim of this study was to explore workers' perceptions of chemical risks at the workplace, in order to investigate the prerequisites for a workplace health program. A qualitative study was conducted involving seven focus groups of 5-10 participants (blue-collar workers) each. All groups were homogeneous in terms of sex, work status, language, and company membership. Results showed that several factors have an important influence on workers' perception of chemical risks. Workers assess risks by means of both sensory and empirical diagnosis and are concerned about the long-term health consequences. They perceive the threat of chemical risks as high. Despite this, they are resigned to accepting the risks. Existing formal sources of information are rarely consulted because they are judged to be difficult to understand and not user friendly. instead, workers tend to obtain information from informal sources. Communication problems with and lack of trust in prevention advisers and hierarchy are frequently mentioned. Workers feel that their specific knowledge of their working conditions and their proposals for practical, cost-effective solutions to improve health and safety at the workplace are insufficiently taken into account. The use of focus groups yielded a useful insight into workers' perceptions of chemical risks. Our findings suggest that training programs for prevention advisers should include topics such as understanding of workers' perceptions, usefulness of a participatory approach, and communication and education skills.

Hameed, S. (2015). "Making sense of Islamic creationism in Europe." Public Understanding of Science 24(4): 388-399.	Islamic creationism has been noted as a serious concern in Europe. There have been reports of boycotts of university evolution lectures and, in one extreme case, even a threat of violence. While religious objections are indeed at play in some cases, our understanding of the rise of Islamic creationism should also take into account socioeconomic disparities and its impact on education for Muslim minorities in Europe. Furthermore, the broader narrative of rejection of evolution in Europe, for some Muslims, may be bound up in reactions to the secular culture and in the formation of their own minority religious identity. On the other hand, the stories of Muslim rejection of evolution in media end up reinforcing the stereotype of Muslims as outsiders and a threat to the European education system. A nuanced understanding of this dynamic may benefit those who support both the propagation of good science and favor cultural pluralism.

Hamilton, J. D. (2003). "Exploring technical and cultural appeals in strategic risk communication: The Fernald radium case." Risk Analysis 23(2): 291-302.	Risk disputes are often characterized by tensions between technical and cultural understandings of risk and by communication practices that reflect those differing perspectives. This study considers how participants in risk debates draw upon and combine aspects of technical and cultural rationality as broad orientations to risk in expressing their views and formulating persuasive appeals during risk debates. Rhetorical theorist Kenneth Burke's (1984) concept of frames of acceptance is used to analyze a case study involving competing priorities for radium stored at the Fernald site, a former Department of Energy nuclear weapons facility. A rhetorical analysis is conducted using the transcript from a 1995 public meeting during which local residents and a nuclear medicine expert discussed priorities of Fernald site cleanup versus providing radium stored on site for promising cancer research. Two tensions are identified that fostered disagreement among discussants: the first a tension between a local or global context for the controversy and the second a tension between competing definitions of public participation for this issue. This study analyzes the rhetorical strategies by which participants in the Fernald radium debate articulated these tensions and argues that technical and cultural rationality (Plough & Krimsky, 1987) acted as sources of rhetorical invention influencing participants' individual frames of acceptance and the ways they defined and interpreted the situation and crafted persuasive appeals.

Hamilton, J. M. (2015). "Performance on behalf of the environment." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 404-406.
	
Hamilton-Webb, A., et al. (2017). "The relationship between risk experience and risk response: a study of farmers and climate change." Journal of Risk Research 20(11): 1379-1393.	Within the existing literature, the role of experience of risk on attitudinal and behavioural risk response has been relatively neglected. Recent research that draws on the psychological distance of climate change as a concept notes the importance of local, significant experience as a driver for encouraging appropriate response. The experience of flooding was used as the stimulus in this paper, and emphasis placed on whether direct and/or indirect experience of flood risk is associated with different responses to climate change risk. In order to explore the relationship between climate change risk experience and response in the form of on-farm mitigation and adaptation, this paper draws on a case study of farmers in England, many of whom have experienced flooding. Results from a quantitative survey undertaken with 200 farmers in Gloucestershire, England are discussed. Statistical analysis found experience of flooding to be significantly associated with a heightened concern for climate change. Although also finding an association between experience and behavioural response, the sample were most likely to be taking adaptive behaviour as part of normal practice, with factors such as lack of overall concern for climate change risk and absence of information and advice likely to be the main barriers to action. Risk communication needs to further emphasise the connection between climate change and extreme weather events to allow for farmers to perceive climate change as a relevant and locally salient phenomenon, and subsequent tailored information and advice should be offered to clearly illustrate the best means of on-farm response. Where possible, emphasis must be placed on actions that also enable adaptation to other, more immediate risks which farmers in this study more readily exhibited concern for, such as market volatility.

Hamlin, C. (2008). "The Philosophy of Expertise." Public Understanding of Science 17(4): 510-511.
	
Hamlin, C. (2008). "The philosophy of expertise." Public Understanding of Science 17(2): 277-278.
	
Hampson, S. E., et al. (1998). "Lay understanding of synergistic risk: The case of radon and cigarette smoking." Risk Analysis 18(3): 343-350.	The combination of radon and smoking produces a synergistic risk of lung cancer. Lay understanding of this risk was examined from the perspectives of mental models theory, the psychometric approach to risk perception, and optimistic bias. As assessed by interview, participants (N = 50) had more extensive mental models for the risks of smoking than for the risks of radon or the combination of radon and smoking; 32% knew little or nothing about radon. Despite reading an informational brochure, their risk-perception ratings of the three hazards showed no perception of the synergy between smoking and radon risk, although the combined hazard was rated as less familiar but more controllable than the average of the single hazards (p <.01). No evidence of optimistic bias for the health consequences of radon, or the combination of radon and smoking was observed. Participants appeared to be combining the single-hazard risks subadditively to arrive at their combined-hazard risk perceptions. Further research on the integration of perceived risks would be beneficial for designing optimal communications about synergistic risk.

Han, H. and N. Stenhouse (2015). "Bridging the Research-Practice Gap in Climate Communication: Lessons From One Academic-Practitioner Collaboration." Science Communication 37(3): 396-404.	Recent evidence suggests that a research-practice gap exists for climate change communication, whereby practitioners are not making optimal use of knowledge that exists and scholars are not answering questions most relevant to practitioners. Closer collaboration between academics and practitioners is one way to close this gap. We recount our collaboration with a group of Sierra Club staff and volunteers working to improve their climate advocacy and organizing activities. From our collaboration, four ways of improving future collaborations emerged, relating to broad versus narrow applicability of communication recommendations, strategy versus tactics, academic versus experiential knowledge, and proactive versus reactive support.

Hanan, J. S. (2013). "The Ecology of Empire: Wal-Mart's Rhetoric of Environmental Stewardship and the Constitutive Power of the Multitude." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(4): 529-547.	This essay provides a critical account of Wal-Mart's rhetoric of environmental stewardship. By situating this discourse within a new political economy of production and governance that Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri have termed empire, I argue that environmental communication scholars should limit the rush to deploy ideological criticism when explaining the corporation's rhetorical motives. Instead, I advocate reading Wal-Mart's rhetoric as a problem of historical conjunctures, a critical move that seeks to highlight, not only the structural interests of capital, but also the centrality of social antagonism. In the case of Wal-Mart, this means accounting for the increased significance of demand to economic production, changes in the composition of sovereignty, and the transgressive function of environmentalism at the beginning of the twenty-first century.

Hanea, A. M., et al. (2018). "Classical meets modern in the IDEA protocol for structured expert judgement." Journal of Risk Research 21(4): 417-433.	Expert judgement is pervasive in all forms of risk analysis, yet the development of tools to deal with such judgements in a repeatable and transparent fashion is relatively recent. This work outlines new findings related to an approach to expert elicitation termed the IDEA protocol. IDEA combines psychologically robust interactions among experts with mathematical aggregation of individual estimates. In particular, this research explores whether communication among experts adversely effects the reliability of group estimates. Using data from estimates of the outcomes of geopolitical events, we find that loss of independence is relatively modest and it is compensated by improvements in group accuracy.

Hansen, A. (2015). "Promising Directions for Environmental Communication Research." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 384-391.
	
Hansen, A. (2016). "The changing uses of accuracy in science communication." Public Understanding of Science 25(7): 760-774.	Tracing its historical trajectories, this article explores the preoccupation with accuracy in science communication research and explores the resurgence in the present century of concerns about accuracy, balance and impartiality in public communication of science. It is argued that many of the original insights from news and journalism research are still relevant and important if re-formulated in constructionist terms about voice, access and claims-making, and asking, in whose interest? Key to this is also the recognition of a radically changing - technologically, economically and professionally - media and communications environment, with implications for science journalism and a very different dynamic regarding the range and type of actors involved in discursively constructing opinions and information about controversial science and expertise. The article concludes with proposals for future emphases and directions in research broadly concerned with accuracy in science communication.

Hansen, A. and D. Machin (2013). "Researching Visual Environmental Communication INTRODUCTION." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(2): 151-168.	In 2008, we published a journal paper arguing that while scholarly work on media representations of environmental issues had made substantial progress in textual analysis, there had been much less work on visual representations. This special edition has a number of aims in this respect. It seeks to mark out where there has been progress since 2008, and the papers in this collection represent some of the fresh and exciting high quality scholarly work now emerging on an expanding number of topics and using different methods. We argue that we need to think more openly about what we mean by the visual. We begin by placing research into visual representations of the environment into the wider trajectory of visual studies research. We then proceed to review key trends in visual environmental communication research and to delineate core dimensions, contexts and sites of visual analysis.

Hansen, K. F. (2009). "Approaching doomsday: how SARS was presented in the Norwegian media." Journal of Risk Research 12(3-4): 345-360.	This article reviews why SARS received so much media attention in Norway, beginning with descriptions of the dynamics and dilemmas faced in health risk communication from the point of view of medical experts and generalist journalists. How the Norwegian media covered SARS is then described and analysed in relation to these risk communication dynamics and dilemmas. Based on the description and short analysis, connotations of the main narratives in the different phases of the SARS outbreak are then discussed. In the conclusion, the nature of SARS itself is used to explain the enormous exposure it received and the massive fear it created in Norway compared to the meagre medical damages it produced there.

Hanson, V. L. (2012). "Amidst Nanotechnology's Molecular Landscapes: The Changing Trope of Subvisible Worlds." Science Communication 34(1): 57-83.	The common scientific metaphor linking microscopic phenomena to new or subvisible worlds in images and text has also been used to describe nanoscale phenomena. However, on closer examination, some images of the nanoscale reveal a shift away from the trope's association with microscopic worlds and toward participatory, computer-generated worlds. This shift articulates different relations between the nanoscale and the macroscopic scale, relations that also affect how we position ourselves in relation to nanoscale phenomena and so affect the formation of nanotechnology. These different relations also create different ways to understand the nanoscale, scientific communication, and the shaping of scientific knowledge.

Hanson-Easey, S., et al. (2015). "Speaking of Climate Change: A Discursive Analysis of Lay Understandings." Science Communication 37(2): 217-239.	Representations of climate change have been a recurrent motif in media and political domains spanning over 20 years. However, relatively scant scholarly work has addressed how laypeople make sense of this phenomenon in talk. The current study, employing a discursive approach, demonstrates how the salience of climate change, as a social issue, is accounted for and made contingent on social, financial, and political factors. Moreover, the issue of climate change was accounted for as an intergenerational issue, and moral considerations were mobilized in arguing for why the issue should be provided increased attention. We argue that science communication research could fruitfully examine the discursive building blocks underpinning taken-for-granted ways of talking about climate change, informing the design of alternative discourses.

Hanssen, L. and B. Gremmen (2013). "Influencing governance of a public-private partnership in plant genomics: The societal interface group as a new instrument for public involvement." Public Understanding of Science 22(6): 718-729.	The Centre for BioSystems Genomics (CBSG) is a Dutch public-private partnership in plant genomics active in potato and tomato research and exploitation. Its Societal Interface Group (SIG) has been developed to inform its communication strategy and governance practice. This new instrument identifies and discusses early signals from society by bringing together people from different societal backgrounds with members of CBSG management. This interactive learning process facilitates the inclusion of public concerns and needs in scientific developments in the field of plant genomics, and simultaneously enables genomics scientists to search for more societal aims, meanings, and starting points for their research agenda. Analysis of the SIG sessions revealed that the input of public expertise is not threatening or irrational, but provides the opportunity to harness the creative potential of future users highly relevant for the development of societal practices in which plant genomics plays a role.

Hansson, N. (2018). "What's so special about the Nobel Prize?" Public Understanding of Science 27(4): 485-488.
	
Harambam, J. and S. Aupers (2015). "Contesting epistemic authority: Conspiracy theories on the boundaries of science." Public Understanding of Science 24(4): 466-480.	Conspiracy theories are immensely popular today, yet in the social sciences they are often dismissed as irrational, bad science, or religious belief. In this study, we take a cultural sociological approach and argue that this persistent disqualification is a form of boundary work that obscures rather than clarifies how and why conspiracy theorists challenge the epistemic authority of science. Based on a qualitative study of the Dutch conspiracy milieu, we distinguish three critiques that are motivated by encounters with scientific experts in everyday life: the alleged dogmatism of modern science, the intimate relation of scientific knowledge production with vested interests, and the exclusion of lay knowledge by scientific experts forming a global power elite. Given their critique that resonates with social scientific understandings of science, it is concluded that conspiracy theorists compete with (social) scientists in complex battles for epistemic authority in a broader field of knowledge contestation.

Haran, J. and J. Kitzinger (2009). "Modest witnessing and managing the boundaries between science and the media: A case study of breakthrough and scandal." Public Understanding of Science 18(6): 634-652.	This article works with the figure of the "modest witness" and the concept of "virtual witnessing" to explore the case of the South Korean scientist, Hwang, whose stem cell breakthroughs are now regarded as hoaxes. We analyze the rhetorical techniques used by the scientific establishment and news media to first endorse, and then disavow, Hwang's work. In particular, we focus on how the rhetoric of disavowal operates to maintain a dominant understanding of the normal relationship between science and the media. We highlight how journalists and scientists framed the original breakthroughs in ways which obscured the mediation of these events, but, once the scandals emerged, began to foreground the media as a problem. This retrospective acknowledgement of mediation also subtly (re) assigned the problem to the world of celebrity scientists and fictional genres and narratives. This lets news reporting, and routine science-journalist relations off the hook.

Hardy, A. (1998). "The gospel of germs: Men, women, and the microbe in American life." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 351-352.
	
Hardy, B. W. and K. H. Jamieson (2017). "Overcoming Endpoint Bias in Climate Change Communication: The Case of Arctic Sea Ice Trends." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(2): 205-217.	Unusually cold winters, a slowing in upward global temperatures, or an increase in Arctic sea ice extent are often falsely cast as here-and-now disconfirmation of the scientific consensus on climate change. Such conclusions are examples of "end point bias," the well documented psychological tendency to interpret a recent short-term fluctuation as a reversal of a long-term trend. End point bias poses a challenge to those trying to communicate cross-decade climate warming trends. In this study, we demonstrate that exposure to misleading scientific information on FoxNews.com that evokes end point bias can affect the beliefs of liberals and moderates as well as conservatives. We also show that the leveraging-involving-visualizing-analogizing communication model can reduce the effects of endpoint bias among moderates and liberals at the same time as it dampens both the ideological and endpoint biasing of conservatives.

Harrington, D. W., et al. (2012). "Frames, claims and audiences: Construction of food allergies in the Canadian media." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 724-739.	Food allergies are newly emerging health risks, and some evidence indicates that their prevalence is increasing. Public perception, however, is that the prevalence of food allergies is much greater than systematic estimates suggest. As food allergies increasingly permeate everyday life, this paper explores how associated risks are constructed through the mass media. In particular, nine years of media coverage of food allergies are analysed through the lens of issue framing and claims-making. Results show that advocates and affected individuals dominate discussions around policy action, while researchers and health professionals are diagnosing the causes of food allergy. Results also suggest that there is competition over the definition of food allergies, which may, in turn, be shaping public understanding of the related risks. There is also an indication that the framing of food allergies is evolving over time, and that the discussion is becoming increasingly one-sided with affected individuals leading the charge.

Hart, P. S. (2011). "One or Many? The Influence of Episodic and Thematic Climate Change Frames on Policy Preferences and Individual Behavior Change." Science Communication 33(1): 28-51.	Drawing from framing theory, this study examines how describing the impact of climate change on polar bears with an episodic or thematic frame may affect predispositions for individual behavior change and support for policies to address climate change. The study finds that participants exposed to a thematic frame had more support for policies that address climate change than participants exposed to an episodic frame. There was no framing effect for predispositions for individual behavior change. Implications for communicating climate change to the general public are discussed.

Hart, P. S. (2013). "The role of numeracy in moderating the influence of statistics in climate change messages." Public Understanding of Science 22(7): 785-798.	In recent years, researchers have examined how numerical ability may moderate an individual's response to different types of numeric information, but there is scant research examining how numerical ability may moderate responses to non-numeric vs. numeric information. The present study uses an experiment (complete data for 120 participants) to examine a moderated-mediation model that tests how numeracy may moderate the impact of numeric and non-numeric descriptions of climate change risks on worry and concern for victims, which may, in turn, impact willingness to donate to relevant organizations. The inclusion of numeric instead of non-numeric descriptors significantly increased both concern for victims and willingness to donate for low numerate individuals while there was no difference for highly numerate individuals.

Hart, P. S. and L. Feldman (2014). "Threat Without Efficacy? Climate Change on U.S. Network News." Science Communication 36(3): 325-351.	This study investigates how U.S. network television news stories have conveyed threat and efficacy information about climate change, both directly and indirectly, through the discussion and framing of climate change impacts and actions. Results show that while impacts and actions are discussed independently in a majority of broadcasts, they are rarely discussed in the same broadcast. Moreover, while news coverage frequently conveys the threat of climate change, it provides an inconsistent efficacy message, often including both positive and negative efficacy cues. Finally, impacts are framed primarily in terms of environmental consequences, whereas actions are framed in terms of political conflict.

Hart, P. S. and L. Feldman (2016). "The Impact of Climate Change-Related Imagery and Text on Public Opinion and Behavior Change." Science Communication 38(4): 415-441.	This experimental study investigates how imagery and text in news coverage of climate change affect perceptions of issue importance, efficacy, and intentions to conserve energy and engage in climate change-related political behavior. The results reveal that images of solar panels and texts that discuss actions to address climate change increase individuals' perceptions of efficacy. Perceived efficacy and issue importance each have a positive association with behavior change. In contrast to previous studies, the present investigation finds no evidence that exposure to images of either climate impacts or climate pollution negatively influence perceived efficacy or positively influence perceived issue importance.

Hart, P. S., et al. (2015). "Extending the Impacts of Hostile Media Perceptions: Influences on Discussion and Opinion Polarization in the Context of Climate Change." Science Communication 37(4): 506-532.	Researchers recently have begun to examine how hostile media perceptions may promote discursive activities aimed at correcting the media's perceived negative influence. We use nationally representative survey data to test a moderated-mediation model that finds that hostile media perceptions significantly affect support for climate mitigation policies through the mediator of discussion and that the link between discussion and policy support is moderated in a three-way interaction with social network heterogeneity and political ideology. Discussion in homogeneous social networks increases opinion polarization between liberals and conservatives by intensifying conservatives' opinions, whereas discussion in heterogeneous social networks decreases polarization by moderating liberals' opinions.

Hart, P. S. and A. A. Leiserowitz (2009). "Finding the Teachable Moment: An Analysis of Information-Seeking Behavior on Global Warming Related Websites during the of The Day After Tomorrow." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(3): 355-366.	This paper investigates how the mass media may influence information-seeking behavior through an analysis of how the release of the movie The Day After Tomorrow, a fictional depiction of global warming causing catastrophic natural disasters, changed the information-seeking behavior of the public on global warming related websites. A "teachable moment" of elevated information-seeking activity was found to extend from 10 days before the release date of The Day After Tomorrow to 19 days after the movie release date. Using Auto Regressive Integrated Moving Average modeling, a significant positive correlation was found between changes in media coverage of The Day After Tomorrow and changes in information-seeking activity, although the correlation did not support hypothesized time lags. These results are discussed in terms of information-seeking models, and new research directions are proposed to link agenda-setting research with the information-seeking literature.

Hartley, J. (1997). "Postcard, letter or e-mail? What's the best way to obtain a reprint?" Science Communication 19(1): 56-61.	This article compares the response rates and the average response times for three methods of obtaining journal reprints from colleagues. In the first study, requests for reprints were sent by postcard, letter or a letter enclosing additional material for the reprint author The response rates (approximately 66 percent) and the average times to reply did not differ significantly. In the second study, requests for reprints were sent by postcards or by electronic mail. The response rate war approximately 75 percent for both forms of request, but replies were received somewhat faster to electronic mail requests.

Hartley, J. (2000). "Obtaining reprints - Does color help?" Science Communication 22(2): 212-218.	This article compares the response rates for obtaining journal reprints from colleagues when the requests were made using either a yellow ora white postcard. The color of the card had no significant effect on the response rates, which were similar to those obtained in on earlier. study.

Hartley, J. (2003). "Improving the clarity of journal abstracts in psychology - The case for structure." Science Communication 24(3): 366-379.	Background. Previous research with structured abstracts has taken place in mainly medical contexts. This research indicated that such abstracts are more informative, more readable, and more appreciated by readers than are traditional abstracts.
Aim. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that structured abstracts might also be appropriate for a particular psychology journal.
Method. Twenty-four traditional abstracts from the Journal of Educational Psychology were rewritten in a structured form. Measures of word length, information content, and readability were made for both sets of abstracts, and forty-eight authors rated their clarity.
Results. The structured abstracts were significantly longer than the original ones, but they were also significantly more informative and readable and judged significantly clearer by these academic authors.
Conclusions. These findings support the notion that structured abstracts could be profitably introduced into psychology journals.

Hartley, J., et al. (2004). "Clarity across the disciplines - An analysis of texts in the sciences, social sciences, and arts and humanities." Science Communication 26(2): 188-210.	Computer-based readability measures were used to examine the clarity of texts written in the sciences, the social sciences, and the arts and humanities. Five studies examined texts that were written in these different disciplines for different audiences, moving from fellow researchers to students and the general public. Readability increased across these genres until it reached an asymptote. In several cases, the scientific texts used shorter sentences and were easier to read than were their parallel texts in the other disciplines.

Hartman, J. (1997). "The popularization of science through citizen volunteers." Public Understanding of Science 6(1): 69-86.	This naturalistic inquiry examines the epistemological role of textual and conversational rhetoric between specialized scientists and citizen volunteers who work interdependently conducting research in the environmental sciences. Specifically, the everyday actions of Earthwatch Principal Investigators (PIs) are explored to identify rhetorical forms and functions of popularization employed during daily communication with citizen volunteers. in this unique opportunity to examine scientists communicating directly with the public during the actual process of research, insights are gained in relation to science production and representation. Interviews and materials of eight Pls reflect three alternative rhetorics: Inviting/Egalitarian, Social/Adventure and Technical/Normative. These rhetorics are examined from social-epistemological perspectives' in order to consider their democratic implications.

Hartzog, M. (2015). "Scapegoating in the Wild: A Burkean Analysis of Two Outdoor Adventures Gone Wrong." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(4): 520-538.	Aron Ralston and Christopher McCandless, two outdoor adventurers, have captured the hearts of many American environmentalists. Each has attained the status of cultural icons and inspired books and films to recount their tales. While entertainment media have romanticized both individuals, news media are not as easy on oneMcCandless is vilified while Ralston is valorized. When reporting these stories, news media outlets attempted to retell each story in a way that conforms to the dominant American ideology of wilderness, where progress is marked by control over naturecontrol that both Ralston and McCandless clearly unsettled. In addition, both committed many of the same errors in being underprepared. Despite these similarities, why are they each presented so differently in the news media? This paper offers a rhetorical analysis of newspaper articles on each story, where the phenomenon of scapegoating alienates McCandless, and the phenomenon of mortification purifies Ralston, restabilizing this American environmental ideology in both stories. In conclusion, I argue that the essential difference between these two stories is that they present two opposing ideals of a human-nature relationship, with Ralston's ideology including a space for technology and industrial knowledge, and thus construed as more appropriate than McCandless' ideology.

Harvatt, J., et al. (2011). "Understanding householder responses to natural hazards: flooding and sea-level rise comparisons." Journal of Risk Research 14(1): 63-83.	Starting from a general understanding that experience of hazards is important in motivating protective response, this paper reports a novel study to understand the relationship between householder experience, understanding and response to two natural hazards - flooding and sea-level rise - in three contrasting high-risk areas of England. It presents a generic Individual Understanding and Response Framework (IURF) as a simple but potentially valuable means of comparing hazards and expressing the dynamic processes that appear to heighten or attenuate understanding and drive or constrain responses to specific natural hazards. The IURFs confirm the complexity of factors underlying householder understanding and response. Even in high-risk areas a lack of recent direct personal experience of flood events serves to attenuate understanding and to constrain motivation to take personal action. For sea-level rise, as yet a largely 'unknown' hazard in the local context, perceived responsibility to act is transferred to others. Social networks are confirmed as important local sources of information often more important than the official. People evaluate potential protection or mitigation measures in terms of their efficacy, cost and implementation barriers. The paper concludes with discussion of the communication and engagement implications for communities at risk from natural hazards.

Haukenes, A. (2004). "Perceived health risks and perceptions of expert consensus in modern food society." Journal of Risk Research 7(7-8): 759-774.	The article deals with perceptions of food and health risks. Relevant questions are: (1) To what degree do consumers associate specific negative health consequences with food additives and genetically modified food, and do their perceptions differ from the experts' views? (2) How do consumers perceive experts' evaluations of health risks connected to food additives and genetically modified food? The results are based on a survey of Norwegian residents in 1999/2000, and of a selected sample of Norwegian experts on food and risks. There were great differences between consumers and experts in their assessments of health risks. To varying extents, consumers associate various health consequences with the risk factors. Consumers seem to perceive experts as more united about the risk factors as health risks than experts do themselves. The findings are discussed with reference to the stigma concept and to a social constructionist perspective. The results contribute to the understanding of consumer perception of risks and their understanding of expert agreement about health risks. They also point to the importance of the interplay between consumers and experts in the public debate and communication process about food and risks.

Hawkes, G. (2010). "Smallpox: The Death of a Disease. The Inside Story of Eradicating a Worldwide Killer." Public Understanding of Science 19(5): 639-640.
	
Hawkes, G. and G. Rowe (2008). "A characterisation of the methodology of qualitative research on the nature of perceived risk: trends and omissions." Journal of Risk Research 11(5): 617-643.	The issue of how risk is 'perceived' is one of significant research interest and immense practical importance. In spite of this wide interest, however, it is probably fair to say that most emerging 'risk' crises - whether related to natural or technological phenomena - come as a surprise to researchers and to society as a whole. Prediction of human responses to novel potential hazards (or novel manifestations of old hazards) is neither reliable nor complete; strategies to ameliorate inappropriate concerns when they arise (or to make realistic inappropriate absences of concern) do not appear totally effective. It therefore seems apt to ask the question: just what have we learned about 'risk perception'? In this paper we conduct a structured review of qualitative research on perceived risk - to be followed by a subsequent analysis of quantitative research in a later paper - focusing upon methodological issues. Qualitative research often precedes quantitative research, and ideally informs it; it seeks depth and meaning from few subjects rather than identifying patterns within larger samples and populations. Without adequate qualitative research, quantitative research risks misanalysis of the target phenomenon, at the very least by the omission of relevant factors and inclusion of irrelevant ones. Our analysis here - of qualitative studies conducted across a range of disciplines, not all of which will be familiar to the readers of this journal - suggests that this research suffers from an incomplete coverage of the 'risk perception universe', typified by a focus on atypical hazards and study samples. We summarise the results of this research, while pointing out its limitations, and draw conclusions about future priorities for research of this type.

Hayenhjelm, M. (2006). "Out of the ashes: Hope and vulnerability as explanatory factors in individual risk taking." Journal of Risk Research 9(3): 189-204.	High individual risk taking, whether in terms of life-style risks or others, has often been explained in terms of acceptance of risks or misperception of the possible negative outcome. This article challenges this view, and points to a kind of risks that does not seem to fit this explanation. These risks are referred to as risks from vulnerability. They are taken because there are no positive alternatives to them, and the choice is perceived as having an element of hope. A new framework is proposed in order to expand these explanatory factors within the risk perception research. This framework analyzes individual risk taking in terms of: poor outset conditions, lack of reasonable options, hope, and liability to disinformation.

Hayes, B. C. and V. N. Tariq (2000). "Gender differences in scientific knowledge and attitudes toward science: a comparative study of four Anglo-American nations." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 433-447.	Despite a lack of empirical verification, research analysts and populist commentators have long assumed that a key factor in explaining anti-scientific attitudes among women is their greater disinterest and ignorance of scientific developments. Using nationally representative Anglo-American data from the 1993 International Social Survey Programme (ISSP) Environment Survey, the results of this analysis question that assumption. Women in the United States, Canada, Great Britain and New Zealand are indeed less knowledgeable and hold less favorable attitudes toward science than men. However, in all but the United States, these gender differences in scientific attitudes are due to male-female disparities in educational background and religious belief not to variations in scientific knowledge. Thus, in Canada, Great Britain and New Zealand, it is not gender per se but rather differences in social background that explain citizens' views. A somewhat different pattern emerges in the United States. Here, it is differences in levels of scientific knowledge and not demographic background, including gender, which explains public variation in attitudes toward science. The implications of these findings for both research analysts and policy makers are briefly discussed.

Hayes, B. C. and V. N. Tariq (2001). "Gender differences in scientific knowledge and attitudes toward science: a reply to a reply." Public Understanding of Science 10(4): 431-433.
	
Haynes, R. (2003). "From alchemy to artificial intelligence: stereotypes of the scientist in Western literature." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 243-253.	Throughout Western culture, the master narrative of the scientist is of an evil and dangerous man. This simplification underlying contemporary mythology of knowledge arises from fear of the power and change that science entails, leaving many people feeling confused and disempowered. It reemerges in the media, most often under the name of "Frankenstein," with any new discovery that appears to threaten social equilibrium. This is not a new phenomenon. From medieval stories about alchemists to films about computer hackers, good scientists are in the minority, and the number of recurring stereotypes is small. Seven are identified: the evil alchemist; the noble scientist as hero or savior of society; the foolish scientist, whether the gullible, seventeenth-century virtuoso or the absent-minded professor; the inhuman researcher of romanticism;. the scientist as adventurer, transcending boundaries of space and time; the mad, bad, dangerous scientist, unscrupulous in the exercise of power; and the helpless scientist, unable to control the outcome of his or her work. These archetypes offer writers and filmmakers a convenient shorthand, a matrix in which to slot contemporary scientists and their projects, simplifying the issues. Like all myths, they appear simple but represent complex ideas and suppressed fears, which transcend time, place, and race.

Haynes, R. D. (2016). "Whatever happened to the "mad, bad' scientist? Overturning the stereotype." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 31-44.	The cluster of myths relating to the pursuit of knowledge has perpetuated the archetype of the alchemist/scientist as sinister, dangerous, possibly mad and threatening to society's values. Shelley's Frankenstein provided imagery and a vocabulary universally invoked in relation to scientific discoveries and technological innovation. The reasons for the longevity of this seemingly antiquated, semiotic imagery are discussed. In the twenty-first century, this stereotype has been radically revised, even overturned. Scientists are now rarely objects of fear or mockery. Mathematicians, both real-life and fictional, are discussed here as being representative of scientists now depicted empathically. This article examines possible sociological reasons for this reversal; what the revisionist image suggests about society's changed attitudes to science; and what might be the substitute fears and sources of horror.

Haywood, B. K. and J. C. Besley (2014). "Education, outreach, and inclusive engagement: Towards integrated indicators of successful program outcomes in participatory science." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 92-106.	The use and utility of science in society is often influenced by the structure, legitimacy, and efficacy of the scientific research process. Public participation in scientific research (PPSR) is a growing field of practice aimed at enhancing both public knowledge and understanding of science (education outreach) and the efficacy and responsiveness of scientific research, practice, and policy (participatory engagement). However, PPSR objectives focused on education outreach and participatory engagement have each emerged from diverse theoretical traditions that maintain distinct indicators of success used for program development and evaluation. Although areas of intersection and overlap among these two traditions exist in theory and practice, a set of comprehensive standards has yet to coalesce that supports the key principles of both traditions in an assimilated fashion. To fill this void, a comprehensive indicators framework is proposed with the goal of promoting a more integrative and synergistic PPSR program development and assessment process.

Healy, S. (2004). "A 'post-foundational' interpretation of risk: risk as 'performance'." Journal of Risk Research 7(3): 277-296.	Contemporary problems tend to be inherently 'post-normal' in their intimate intermeshing of scientific and contextual concerns. Yet we struggle with this mix, constrained by analytical frameworks that admit one or other of these concerns but not both. While this segregation of material and social domains has been central to the western intellectual tradition, alternative understandings transcending these distinctions have recently been developed. This paper applies some of these insights to risk. Using Actor-Network Theory risk is conceived as a dynamic entity manifested by the relationships between material and social domains rather than as something correlating to either one or other of them. This interpretation illuminates the systemic nature of contemporary problems and the solutions they necessitate underlining, in particular, the significance of matters of scale and complexity. Applied to the risk society it advances insights concerning the pervasiveness of scientific logic and its embodiment by leading institutions, while applied to public participation and HAZOP it emphasizes the benefits of unhindered, intersubjective communication. Harnessing these insights an approach of 'epistemic pluralism' is proposed for 'post-normal' problems in which conventional insights and methods are pragmatically combined with those of the form elaborated here.

Heath, C., et al. (2005). "Interaction and interactives: collaboration and participation with computer-based exhibits." Public Understanding of Science 14(1): 91-101.	It is increasingly recognized that social interaction and collaboration are critical to our experience of museums and galleries. Curators, museum managers and designers are exploring ways of enhancing interaction and in particular using tools and technologies to create new forms of participation, with and around, exhibits. It is found, however, that these new tools and technologies, whilst enhancing "interactivity," can do so at the cost of social interaction and collaboration, inadvertently impoverishing co-participation, and cooperation. In this paper we address some of the issues and difficulties that arise in designing for "interactivity" and in particular point to the complex and highly contingent forms of social interaction which arise with, and around, exhibits. The paper is based on a series of video-based field studies of conduct and interaction in various museums and galleries in London and elsewhere including the Science Museum and Explore@ Bristol.

Heath, R. L. and J. Lee (2016). "Chemical Manufacturing and Refining Industry Legitimacy: Reflective Management, Trust, Precrisis Communication to Achieve Community Efficacy." Risk Analysis 36(6): 1108-1124.	Calls for emergency right-to-know in the 1980s, and, in the 1990s, risk management planning, motivated U.S. chemical manufacturing and refining industries to operationalize a three-pronged approach to risk minimization and communication: reflective management to increase legitimacy, operational safety programs to raise trust, and community engagement designed to facilitate citizens' emergency response efficacy. To assess these management, operational, and communication initiatives, communities (often through Local Emergency Planning Committees) monitored the impact of such programs. In 2012, the fourth phase of a quasi-longitudinal study was conducted to assess the effectiveness of operational change and community outreach in one bellwether community. This study focuses on legitimacy, trust, and response efficacy to suggest that an industry can earn legitimacy credits by raising its safety and environmental impact standards, by building trust via that change, and by communicating emergency response messages to near residents to raise their response efficacy. As part of its campaign to demonstrate its concern for community safety through research, planning, and implementation of safe operations and viable emergency response systems, this industry uses a simple narrative of risk/emergency responseshelter-in-placecommunicated by a spokes-character: Wally Wise Guy.

Heath, R. L., et al. (2018). "Risk Communication Emergency Response Preparedness: Contextual Assessment of the Protective Action Decision Model." Risk Analysis 38(2): 333-344.	Studies are continuously performed to improve risk communication campaign designs to better prepare residents to act in the safest manner during an emergency. To that end, this article investigates the predictive ability of the protective action decision model (PADM), which links environmental and social cues, predecision processes (attention, exposure, and comprehension), and risk decision perceptions (threat, alternative protective actions, and stakeholder norms) with protective action decision making. This current quasi-longitudinal study of residents (N = 400 for each year) in a high-risk (chemical release) petrochemical manufacturing community investigated whether PADM core risk perceptions predict protective action decision making. Telephone survey data collected at four intervals (1995, 1998, 2002, 2012) reveal that perceptions of protective actions and stakeholder norms, but not of threat, currently predict protective action decision making (intention to shelter in place). Of significance, rather than threat perceptions, perception of Wally Wise Guy (a spokes-character who advocates shelter in place) correlates with perceptions of protective action, stakeholder norms, and protective action decision making. Wally's response-efficacy advice predicts residents' behavioral intentions to shelter in place, thereby offering contextually sensitive support and refinement for PADM.

Heath, R. L., et al. (2007). "Nature, Crisis, Risk, Science, and Society: What is Our Ethical Responsibility?" Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(1): 34-48.	In his keynote address, Robert Cox raised key questions, many of which force us to consider the larger question of the role of academics in society. The authors respond by suggesting that environmental communication, like other communication studies, is inherently normative and that environmental communication scholarship is closely aligned to risk as a centerpiece to crisis analysis. The authors discuss the productive connections among science, communication and sound public policy that make society more fully functional, including the formation of effective public policy through science that is normative while seeking objectivity, evaluating and symbolizing motives in discourse, acknowledging uncertainty and acceptable uncertainty, and that material and symbolic dimensions of the environment are interdependent. Thus, such studies focus on the ethics of environment and must balance sound science and cultural considerations.

Hedding, K. J. (2017). "Sources and Framing of Fracking: A Content Analysis of Newspaper Coverage in North Carolina, New York, and Pennsylvania." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(3): 370-385.	Research across several decades has mapped the way complex environmental issues with complicated policy implications are often differentially framed within the media, public, and policy agendas with major implications for how they are understood, discussed, and decided. Building on this work, this this study compared news coverage of the debate over natural gas "fracking" in New York, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina between the period 2008 and 2013. Examining state newspapers, the analysis evaluated the types of sources used, the assertions of these sources, and how the issue of fracking was framed. From a general perspective, this study reveals how differences in framing of an environmental and scientific controversy can be attributed to the locally relevant sources used in reporting, as well as the political, economic, and social factors that might be unique to a state. Specific to the debate over natural gas "fracking," this study adds to our understanding of how such state-based factors influence the portrayal of the issue in the news media.

Hedgecoe, A. M. (2000). "The popularization of genetics as geneticization." Public Understanding of Science 9(2): 183-189.
	
Heesen, A. T. (2000). "Picturing science - Producing art." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 338-339.
	
Heiss, S. N. (2013). ""Healthy" discussions about risk: The Corn Refiners Association's strategic negotiation of authority in the debate over high fructose corn syrup." Public Understanding of Science 22(2): 219-235.	Many foods and eating practices have been framed as risky by risk societies. Recently, high fructose corn syrup (HFCS) has become a highly scrutinized food additive. Informed by a social construction of risk framework, I analyze the discursive contributions of the Corn Refiners Association, a trade association, to public negotiations of HFCS risks. I describe how the association's Sweet Surprise campaign advertisements rely on a deficit model to shape understandings of who should participate in conversations about HFCS. I conclude by exploring the practical implications of this analysis, particularly how trade associations can negotiate tensions between promoting health and serving commercial interests, and how these decisions contribute to understandings of the public's role in risk negotiation.

Hellier, E., et al. (2012). "The effects of label design characteristics on perceptions of genetically modified food." Journal of Risk Research 15(5): 533-545.	Objective. To explore the effects on perceptions of labelling food for genetically modified content. Background: there is increasing public pressure for the compulsory labelling of genetically modified food content on all food products, and yet little is known about how the design and content of such food labels will influence product perceptions. The current research draws upon warning label research - a field in which the effect of label design manipulations on perceptions of, and responses to, potential or perceived risks is well documented. Method. Two experiments are reported that investigate how label design features influence the perception of genetically modified foods. The effects of label colour (red, blue and green), wording style (definitive vs. probabilistic and explicit vs. non-explicit) and information source (government agency, consumer group and manufacturer) on hazard perceptions and purchase intentions were measured. Results. Hazard perceptions and purchase intentions were both influenced by label design characteristics in predictable ways. Any reference to genetic modification, even if the label is stating that the product is free of genetically modified ingredients, increased hazard perception, and decreased purchase intentions, relative to a no-label condition. Conclusion. Label design effects generalise from warning label research to influence the perception of genetically modified foods in predictable ways. Application. The design of genetically modified food labels.

Hellsten, I., et al. (2010). "Implicit media frames: Automated analysis of public debate on artificial sweeteners." Public Understanding of Science 19(5): 590-608.	The framing of issues in the mass media plays a crucial role in the public understanding of science and technology. This article contributes to research concerned with the analysis of media frames over time by making an analytical distinction between implicit and explicit media frames, and by introducing an automated method for the analysis of implicit frames. In particular, we apply a semantic maps method to a case study on the newspaper debate about artificial sweeteners, published in the New York Times between 1980 and 2006. Our results show that the analysis of semantic changes enables us to filter out the dynamics of implicit frames, and to detect emerging metaphors in public debates. Theoretically, we discuss the relation between implicit frames in public debates and the codification of meaning and information in scientific discourses, and suggest further avenues for research interested in the automated analysis of frame changes and trends in public debates.

Hellsten, I., et al. (2014). "Imagining the Future at the Global and National Scale: A Comparative Study of British and Dutch Press Coverage of Rio 1992 and Rio 2012." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(4): 468-488.	Climate change and imagined futures are intricately linked, discussed by policy-makers and reported in the media. In this article we focus on the construction of future expectations in the press coverage of the 1992 and 2012 United Nations conferences in Rio de Janeiro in British and Dutch national newspapers. We use a novel combination of methods, semantic co-word networks and metaphor analysis, to study imagined futures. Our findings show that between 1992 and 2012 there was an overall shift from future-oriented hope to past-oriented disappointment regarding implementing international agreements on climate change policy, but with subtle and interesting differences between the UK and The Netherlands. Certain national differences seem to be stable over time and are indicative of rather dissimilar policy cultures in two nations which are geographically quite close.

Hendriks, F., et al. (2016). "Evoking vigilance: Would you (dis)trust a scientist who discusses ethical implications of research in a science blog?" Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 992-1008.	The experimental studies presented here investigated whether discussing ethical implications of preliminary scientific results in a science blog would impact blog readers' perception of the responsible scientist blogger's epistemic trustworthiness (on the dimensions expertise, integrity, and benevolence). They also investigated whether it made a difference in who had brought forward the ethics aspects: the responsible scientist blogger or another expert. Results indicate that by the mere introduction of ethics, people infer something about the blogger's communicative intentions: Introducing ethical aspects seems to raise vigilance about an expert's benevolence and integrity. Moreover, ratings of epistemic trustworthiness differed depending on who added ethical arguments: If ethics were introduced by the scientist blogger himself, his benevolence and integrity were rated higher than when ethics were introduced by another expert. These results are relevant for science bloggers, science communicators, and researchers who study laypeople's understanding of epistemic uncertainty within science.

Hendry, J. (2008). "Public Discourse and the Rhetorical Construction of the Technospecter." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(3): 302-319.	Modern technological disasters and their human and environmental consequences often defy the imagination in their immensity and complexity. As such, their rhetorical constructions often lack tangibility and a sense of material reality for those not directly involved. These amorphous constructions are consolidated into a view of technological disaster and threats of disaster in which the rhetorical dimensions are analogous to those of ghosts portrayed in popular literature and film-a view the author terms the "technospecter.'' Drawing on the public discourse surrounding a tragic pipeline explosion near Carlsbad, New Mexico, this study identifies the rhetorical dimensions of the technospecter and discusses how the construction of the specter reinforces the meta-narratives that constrain pro-environmental action.

Heneweer, M., et al. (2015). "Health risk perception and effective communication regarding CCS. Commentary to ` Effective risk communication and CCS: the road to success in Europe', by Ragnar Lofstedt." Journal of Risk Research 18(6): 695-698.
	
Hennessy, M., et al. (2017). "The 2014 Walrus Haul Out: A Case Study of Selective Exposure to Environmental News Coverage." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(1): 63-74.	In this article we examine in real time the political selective exposure process involved when the public confronted the walrus haul out of October 2014, a news event attributed by some climate change researchers to the effects of the climate change-driven reduction of Arctic sea ice. Analyzing data assessing the amount of major TV and cable news network coverage of the haul out, and evaluating public opinion data collected from a rolling cross-sectional survey of US adults take at the time, we show that coverage of this event was not equitably distributed across news media news sources, that exposure to news source is related to the respondents' ideological dispositions, and that exposure to coverage of the walrus haul out is related to ideology, the selectivity of political news habits, and climate change knowledge. We conclude with a discussion of the apparent inevitability of selective exposure to media coverage of climate change-related events and the implications for effective climate change communication.

Henning, A. (2008). "The illusion of economic objectivity: linking local risks of credibility loss to global risks of climate change." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 223-235.	This article analyses economic thinking as a conceptual construct and discusses the link it provides between local risks of losing credibility and global risks of resource depletion and climate change. Due to the high-ranking value given to economic thinking in many Swedish contexts, economic arguments are perfect ways to win an argument or negotiation, to prevent risks of losing credibility, or to discredit others. As illustrated in this article, legitimacy-creating acts of communication tend to precede or follow upon a decision to install a solar heating system. An immediate and massive use of solar energy for heating purposes would mitigate the risks of global warming and depletion of energy resources. Unfortunately however, the conspicuous use of economic arguments accompanying solar heating installations tends to be interpreted by policy-makers as a preference for economic motives rather than a sign of questioned consumption. The illusion that economy is an objective entity rising above all other social issues seems to be confirmed, and political measures based on economic thinking can continue to block adequate steps towards the mitigation of climate changing emissions. The cultural representation of economic sovereignty is continuously reproduced through communication. It is a circle; a vicious circle if you like.

Hennink-Kaminski, H. J., et al. (2014). "Join the Conquest: Developing a Campaign to Increase Participation in Clinical Research in North Carolina." Science Communication 36(1): 30-55.	This study addresses the national clinical trial recruitment crisis by chronicling the development of a campaign to move people toward enrollment in an online clinical research registry. The public typically encounters clinical trial information in controversies or study-specific recruitment ads, which limits full understanding. Ten focus groups were conducted with healthy and impaired persons to identify perceived benefits and barriers to participation. Altruism and self-efficacy emerged as key motivators. Three theoretically informed campaigns were developed and tested. Resulting materials have been shared with members of a National Institutes of Health-funded national consortium to improve the way biomedical research is conducted across the country.

Henriksen, E. K. and M. Froyland (2000). "The contribution of museums to scientific literacy: views from audience and museum professionals." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 393-415.	The new goals outlined for museums in recent reports are in line with the efforts to improve the public's civic and practical scientific literacy. We have made a preliminary exploration of the potential of museums to provide information and experiences that the audience finds relevant in the context of science-related issues they encounter in their private or civic lives. We found that for a group of parents faced with the issue of radon in their children's school, two museums in Oslo were not seen as having such a function; neither dib the parents expect museums to have such a role. Professionals from the two museums expressed similar attitudes. If this skepticism toward the new goals is widespread, museums face a great challenge concerning how to relate to the new goals. Based on our findings, we suggest some pertinent issues for future research.

Herring, J., et al. (2017). "Communicating Local Climate Risks Online Through an Interactive Data Visualization." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(1): 90-105.	Literature suggests a need to develop climate communication tools that focus on the impacts of climate change at local scales to increase proximity and communicate the risks on a more personal level. However, the nature of raw climate projection data makes accessibility by the lay audience a challenge and necessitates the need for innovative technological approaches to its distribution. ClimateData.US was created as an interactive visualization tool based on downscaled climate projection data to increase proximity and render climate change as salient and personally relevant. This experiment evaluated whether interacting with ClimateData.US influenced participants' climate change attitudes and concern and whether this effect varied as a function of geographic proximity. Findings revealed strong effectsregardless of geographic proximityfor interacting with the website on participants' perceived reality of climate change, attitude certainty, and concern for climate change.

Hess, D. J. (2011). "To tell the truth: on scientific counterpublics." Public Understanding of Science 20(5): 627-641.	Research in the public understanding of science for and against the public deficit model often is based on assumptions of individualism and lay knowledge. That approach to the public is contrasted with a second and third concept of the public. Subordinate networks in diverse social fields can form counterpublics when they claim to represent the general public benefit better than the official constructions of the public and public interest that are articulated by the spokespersons of the dominant agents of the respective social fields. Among the counterpublics are those formed by subordinate networks in the scientific field. Two cases of scientific counterpublics, their relations with subordinate networks in other social fields, and their alternative concepts of public good, are explored in an effort to develop a broader understanding of the public and publics. Two policy implications, targeted funding pools and the "dissensus conference," are discussed as possible policy innovations that could be developed in addition to deliberative and consultative approaches such as the consensus conference.

Hess, D. J. and J. S. Coley (2014). "Wireless smart meters and public acceptance: The environment, limited choices, and precautionary politics." Public Understanding of Science 23(6): 688-702.	Wireless smart meters (WSMs) promise numerous environmental benefits, but they have been installed without full consideration of public acceptance issues. Although societal-implications research and regulatory policy have focused on privacy, security, and accuracy issues, our research indicates that health concerns have played an important role in the public policy debates that have emerged in California. Regulatory bodies do not recognize non-thermal health effects for non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation, but both homeowners and counter-experts have contested the official assurances that WSMs pose no health risks. Similarities and differences with the existing social science literature on mobile phone masts are discussed, as are the broader political implications of framing an alternative policy based on an opt-out choice. The research suggests conditions under which health-oriented precautionary politics can be particularly effective, namely, if there is a mandatory technology, a network of counter-experts, and a broader context of democratic contestation.

Hess, R., et al. (2011). "How do people perceive graphical risk communication? The role of subjective numeracy." Journal of Risk Research 14(1): 47-61.	This study aims to evaluate directly how a graphical risk ladder is perceived and how this perception is related to people's subjective numeracy. Gaze durations and frequencies were used to examine visual attention. Participants (N = 47) appeared to focus on the target risk information, whereas referential information was less attended. Subjective numeracy was negatively correlated with total watching time and the absolute number of gaze events. Results suggest that participants with low subjective numeracy have more difficulty in comprehending the graph, and that they process the graphical information less efficiently than the participants with high subjective numeracy. In addition, the position of referential risks on risk ladders could influence people's risk perception. Based on these findings, we provide some implications for the design of risk communication graphs and for the use of graphs in informing persons with low subjective numeracy about risks.

Hestres, L. E. (2018). "Take Action Now: Motivational Framing and Action Requests in Climate Advocacy." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(4): 462-479.	This article explores similarities and differences between Internet-mediated climate change advocacy organizations and their legacy counterparts. It relies on a content analysis of advocacy emails produced by Environmental Defense Fund, Natural Resources Defense Council, Sierra Club, Greenpeace USA, League of Conservation Voters, Climate Reality Project, 1Sky, and 350.org. The study finds differences and similarities in strategic Internet use, including greater emphasis by climate groups on high threshold, offline actions; greater emphasis by legacy groups on low threshold, online actions; and high reliance by both framings that demand accountability from political elites. Implications for Internet-mediated and climate advocacy are discussed.

Hijmans, E., et al. (2003). "Covering scientific research in Dutch newspapers." Science Communication 25(2): 153-176.	A content analysis of scientific news coverage in Dutch newspapers was conducted and supplemented with interviews with ten news editors and science journalists. In a total of ninety-six editions of the newspapers, we found 624 reports about scientific research. The content analysis focuses on the actual reporting of background and methodological aspects of the research covered. Contrary to expectations, quality papers and science sections in general did not supply more or better information on these aspects. The interviews revealed that reporting on scientific research means avoidance of complex information, even in the science section. Since most social-scientific research is reported in the news part of the paper it generally lacks a critical approach to conceptual and statistical formulations.

Hildering, P., et al. (2013). "Denying Darwin: Views on science in the rejection of evolution by Dutch Protestants." Public Understanding of Science 22(8): 988-998.	Evolution has met with considerable religious opposition for 150 years and is still controversial among various religious groups. This article tries to understand the evolution controversy by reframing it as a phenomenon of public understanding of science. Three paradigms were used as hypotheses for the rejection of evolution by Dutch Protestant Christians: knowledge deficit, attitude deficit and trust deficit. Ten Dutch Protestants rejecting evolution were interviewed about their views concerning evolution and science. It was found that the main reason for rejecting evolution was an a priori decision to trust the Bible more than science. Any views on science and evolution were based on this decision, so all three hypotheses, which suggest an a posteriori decision, were found to be not sufficient to explain the rejection of evolution, even though both a knowledge deficit and a trust deficit were found for some participants. However, all respondents felt that their a priori decision was supported by scientific facts. All respondents stated that evolution does not meet the criteria for good science and is therefore as unscientific as the belief in creation. Excluding evolution from science allows the respondents to retain their positive attitudes towards science.

Hiles, S. S. and A. Hinnant (2014). "Climate Change in the Newsroom: Journalists' Evolving Standards of Objectivity When Covering Global Warming." Science Communication 36(4): 428-453.	This study investigated how highly experienced environmental journalists view the professional norms of objectivity when covering climate change over time. Elite journalists were sought, and all had a minimum of 10 years of experience in climate coverage. In-depth interviews revealed a paradox: Most still profess belief in objectivity even as they reject or redefine it. Participants said that journalists should use objective practices and refrain from revealing their own biases, including advocating for the environment. However, participants have radically redefined the component of objectivity known as balance. They now advocate a weight-of-evidence approach, where stories reflect scientific consensus.

Hilgard, J. and K. H. Jamieson (2017). "Does a Scientific Breakthrough Increase Confidence in Science? News of a Zika Vaccine and Trust in Science." Science Communication 39(4): 548-560.	How can public support for science be encouraged? In early August 2016, a Zika vaccine entered its first human trial. Extensive media coverage followed. Using repeated cross-sectional surveys, we observed that, following this media coverage, survey respondents reported greater attention to Zika news and an increased trust in science as providing solutions to problems. Whereas the increase in attention was long-lived, lasting 6 weeks or more, the increase in trust was short-lived, lasting only 2 weeks. This result provides insight into the duration of media effects and suggests conditions that facilitate trust in science.

Hilgartner, S. (1995). "Biomolecular Databases - New Communication Regimes for Biology." Science Communication 17(2): 240-263.	During the past two decades, computerized biomolecular databases have rapidly expanded and have been prominently integrated into laboratory work in biological sciences. This article offers an exploratory look at the potential significance of these databases as novel tools for scientific communication. The article develops the concept of a science communication regime-a sociotechnical system that constitutes a particular means of scientific communication such as the scientific journal. This concept is then used to examine biomolecular databases and their potential implications for scientific institutions and practices. The field of genome research provides empirical examples, and the discussion explores the potential significance of these new forms eletronic communication.

Hilverda, F. and M. Kuttschreuter (2018). "Online Information Sharing About Risks: The Case of Organic Food." Risk Analysis 38(9): 1904-1920.	Individuals have to make sense of an abundance of information to decide whether or not to purchase certain food products. One of the means to sense-making is information sharing. This article reports on a quantitative study examining online information sharing behavior regarding the risks of organic food products. An online survey among 535 respondents was conducted in the Netherlands to examine the determinants of information sharing behavior, and their relationships. Structural equation modeling was applied to test both the measurement model and the structural model. Results showed that the intention to share information online about the risks of organic food was low. Conversations and email were the preferred channels to share information; of the social media Facebook stood out. The developed model was found to provide an adequate description of the data. It explained 41% of the variance in information sharing. Injunctive norms and outcome expectancies were most important in predicting online information sharing, followed by information-related determinants. Risk-perception-related determinants showed a significant, but weak, positive relationship with online information sharing. Implications for authorities communicating on risks associated with food are addressed.

Hine, C. (2014). "Headlice eradication as everyday engagement with science: An analysis of online parenting discussions." Public Understanding of Science 23(5): 574-591.	This paper focuses on the way in which people deploy scientific knowledge alongside other resources in everyday interactions. In the UK headlice are common amongst schoolchildren, and treatment is viewed as a parental responsibility. Choice between treatment options lies with individual parents, with official guidance giving no clear steer. In the face of this combination of responsibility and uncertainty, users of an online parenting forum justify their actions using a variety of resources, including claims to scientific knowledge of both headlice and the action of various treatments, but also drawing on the authority of having direct experience, trust in brand-named products and generalised suspicion of "chemical" treatments. These discussions occasion expression of knowledge as part of portraying oneself as a responsible parent, and thus while they do not necessarily represent public knowledge about science more generally, they do offer a useful site to explore what people do with science.

Hinnant, A. and M. E. Len-Rios (2009). "Tacit Understandings of Health Literacy Interview and Survey Research With Health Journalists." Science Communication 31(1): 84-115.	This research offers both qualitative and quantitative data about how health journalists approach health literacy practically and conceptually. Using interviews with 20 writers and editors for magazines and newspapers coupled with a national survey (N = 396), this analysis uncovers journalistic techniques and tacit theories for making information understandable. The journalists evince a basic understanding of how health literacy can be enhanced through certain story elements (such as nontechnical word use), but they also maintain false ideas about appropriate comprehension aides (such as statistics). Findings show that journalists struggle to maintain scientific credibility while accommodating different audience literacy levels. Journalists' definitions of health literacy strategically carve out a place for their work as translators.

Hisschemoller, M. and C. J. H. Midden (1999). "Improving the usability of research on the public perception of science and technology for policy-making." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 17-33.	Studies on public reactions to science and technology may help policy makers who seek to involve the public in decision making on issues related to technological or scientific complexity. The paper seeks to understand how research on public reactions to science and technology can be used, addressing the following questions: What is good quality research? Which research offers data that are most useful for decision makers ? An evaluation of the approaches used both in research on public reactions and in policy decisions shows that the general public can be considered in different roles; specific dimensions of those roles include the passive vs. active citizen-consumer, and the non-attentive vs. participative citizen. The paper presents a typology which links the research and policy approaches. It concludes that, in order to increase the usability of research on public reactions, the research and policy approaches should match. Equally important, researchers and policy makers should question their assumptions on the public's role rather than take their own assumptions for granted.

Hivon, M., et al. (2010). "Marginal voices in the media coverage of controversial health interventions: how do they contribute to the public understanding of science?" Public Understanding of Science 19(1): 34-51.	While the media are a significant source of information for the public on science and technology, journalists are often accused of providing only a partial picture by neglecting the points of view of vulnerable stakeholders. This paper analyzes the press coverage of four controversial health interventions in order to uncover what voices are treated marginally in the media and what the relative contributions of these voices are to the stories being told. Our empirical study shows that: 1) patterns of source utilization vary depending on the health intervention and less dominant stakeholders are in fact represented; and 2) the use of marginal voices fills certain information gaps but the overall contribution of such voices to the controversies remains limited. In order to strengthen the media coverage of science and technology issues, we suggest that further research on journalistic practices: 1) move beyond the dichotomy between journalists and scientists, and 2) explore how different categories of readers appraise the meaning and relevance of media content.

Hmielowski, J. D., et al. (2014). "An attack on science? Media use, trust in scientists, and perceptions of global warming." Public Understanding of Science 23(7): 866-883.	There is a growing divide in how conservatives and liberals in the USA understand the issue of global warming. Prior research suggests that the American public's reliance on partisan media contributes to this gap. However, researchers have yet to identify intervening variables to explain the relationship between media use and public opinion about global warming. Several studies have shown that trust in scientists is an important heuristic many people use when reporting their opinions on science-related topics. Using within-subject panel data from a nationally representative sample of Americans, this study finds that trust in scientists mediates the effect of news media use on perceptions of global warming. Results demonstrate that conservative media use decreases trust in scientists which, in turn, decreases certainty that global warming is happening. By contrast, use of non-conservative media increases trust in scientists, which, in turn, increases certainty that global warming is happening.

Hmielowski, J. D., et al. (2018). "Expanding the Political Philosophy Dimension of the RISP Model: Examining the Conditional Indirect Effects of Cultural Cognition." Risk Analysis 38(9): 1891-1903.	This article attempts to connect literatures from the Risk Information Seeking and Processing (RISP) model and cultural cognition theory. We do this by assessing the relationship between the two prominent cultural cognition variables (i.e., group and grid) and risk perceptions. We then examine whether these risk perceptions are associated with three outcomes important to the RISP model: information seeking, systematic processing, and heuristic processing, through a serial mediation model. We used 2015 data collected from 10 communities across the United States to test our hypotheses. Our results show that people high on group and low on grid (egalitarian communitarians) show greater risk perceptions regarding water quality issues. Moreover, these higher levels of perceived risk translate into increased information seeking, systematic processing of information, and lower heuristic processing through intervening variables from the RISP model (e.g., negative emotions and information insufficiency). These results extend the extant literature by expanding on the treatment of political ideology within the RISP model literature and taking a more nuanced approach to political beliefs in accordance with the cultural cognitions literature. Our article also expands on the RISP literature by looking at information-processing variables.

Ho, S. S., et al. (2014). "Seeking Information About Climate Change: Effects of Media Use in an Extended PRISM." Science Communication 36(3): 270-295.	This study replicates and extends the planned risk information seeking model (PRISM) in the context of impersonal risk by incorporating media use as an antecedent of risk information seeking intention. Results indicate that the model applies equally well to Singaporeans' climate change information seeking intention as it does in the context of personal health information, suggesting that the model is generalizable across different risk and cultural contexts. Findings suggest that media use is an important source of perceived knowledge and, indirectly, sufficiency threshold, which clarifies the role of actual information seeking in risk perceptions and future information seeking.

Ho, S. S., et al. (2015). "Applying the Theory of Planned Behavior and Media Dependency Theory: Predictors of Public Pro-environmental Behavioral Intentions in Singapore." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(1): 77-99.	Applying the theory of planned behavior and media dependency theory, this study examines the effects of attitude, subjective norms, perceived behavioral control (PBC), media dependency, traditional media attention, Internet attention, and interpersonal communication on two types of pro-environmental behaviors (PEBs)-green-buying and environmental civic engagement. Regression analysis of a nationally representative survey of adult Singaporeans (N = 1168) indicated that attitude, PBC, media dependency, traditional media attention, and interpersonal communication were positively associated with green-buying. Notably, traditional media attention, as well as interpersonal communication, moderated the influence of media dependency on green-buying behavior. In addition, attitude, descriptive norms, media dependency, Internet attention, and interpersonal communication positively predicted environmental civic engagement. Findings suggest the importance of communication factors in the adoption of the two PEBs.

Ho, S. S., et al. (2011). "Value Predispositions, Mass Media, and Attitudes Toward Nanotechnology: The Interplay of Public and Experts." Science Communication 33(2): 167-200.	This study examines the factors influencing public and experts' attitudes toward nanotechnology. Compared with the experts, the public judged nanotechnology as having greater risks and lesser benefits, and indicated less support for federal funding of nanotechnology. Experts used trust in scientists while public used religious beliefs as heuristic cues to make risk judgments. Although deference to scientific authority, science media use, and trust in scientists shaped perceived benefits in both groups, these heuristic cues influenced public perceptions to a larger extent than experts' perceptions. Experts used relatively less cues to form decision about funding support for nanotechnology as compared with the public.

Ho, S. S., et al. (2013). "Factors influencing public risk-benefit considerations of nanotechnology: Assessing the effects of mass media, interpersonal communication, and elaborative processing." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 606-623.	This study examines the influence of mass media, interpersonal communication, and elaborative processing on public perception of benefits and risks of nanotechnology, based on a large-scale nationally representative telephone survey of U.S. adult citizens. Results indicate that cognitive processes in the form of news elaboration had a significant positive main effect on benefits outweigh risks perception. The influences of attention to science in newspapers, attention to science news on television, and interpersonal communication about science on public perception of benefits outweigh risks were moderated by elaborative processing, after controlling for socio-demographic variables, religious beliefs, trust in scientists, and scientific knowledge. The findings highlight the importance of elaborative processing when it comes to understanding how the mass media differentially influence public benefits outweigh risks perception of emerging technologies. Specifically, high elaborative processing emphasizes higher levels of perceived benefits outweigh risks than low elaborative processing. This study explores explanations for this phenomenon and offers implications for future research and policy.

Hobbs, L. K. (2015). "Play-Based Science Learning Activities: Engaging Adults and Children With Informal Science Learning for Preschoolers." Science Communication 37(3): 405-414.	Informal science learning opportunities for preschool children are relatively rare in the United Kingdom. An outreach project was set up to provide accessible, public science-based play learning activity sessions for preschool (0-5 years) children, accompanied by accessible scientific background information for adults. Events run in northwest England have been well attended, with positive feedback. These experiences indicate that parents/carers and children benefit from accessing such opportunities and that public facilities such as local libraries provide ideal spaces for presenting them.

Hobbs, L. K. and K. Ollerenshaw (2018). "Engaging Young Carers With Science Through Textile-Based Crafts." Science Communication 40(2): 275-286.	Textile-based crafts were used to engage young carers (under 18s providing care for another person) and accompanying adults in learning about underlying chemistry concepts, in an economically deprived area of northwest England; the region of the United Kingdom with the highest number of young carers. This science-crafts collaboration was supported by the Royal Society of Chemistry Outreach Fund and a British Science Week Community Grant. Feedback from participants indicated strong positive impacts on interest in and understanding of chemistry and its relevance to everyday life, social benefits, and, for accompanying adults, increased confidence in engaging young people with learning about chemistry.

Hochadel, O. (2013). "A boom of bones and books: The "popularization industry" of Atapuerca and human-origins research in contemporary Spain." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 530-537.	Atapuerca is an important prehistoric site in northern Spain that yielded the oldest hominid fossils in Europe in 1994. Since 1998 the three co-directors of the research team have in sum (co-)authored more than twenty-five popular science books, a boom without precedent in human-origins research. This paper will put forward three hypotheses. First, that these books were instrumental in achieving public recognition and financial support for the research project. Second, popular books on human origins serve as enlarged battlefields and as a meta-forum to expose new ideas to the scientific community. Third, the public visibility of these publications enables their authors to assume new roles that go well beyond their part as paleoanthropologists.

Hodder, P. (2010). "Out of the laboratory and into the knowledge economy: A context for the evolution of New Zealand science centres." Public Understanding of Science 19(3): 335-354.	The establishment of science centres in New Zealand coincided with reforms of the way scientific research was conducted and funded and a low-point in career prospects for scientists. For political and financial reasons, most New Zealand science centres sacrificed their independence and became associated with museums and now receive much of their funding through local authorities. This could have assisted in their promotion of the public understanding of science; but the availability of educational funding through a "Learning Experiences Outside the Classroom" scheme motivated the development of educationally oriented programmes targeted to school-children. Despite this emphasis, there is no firm evidence that the centres have had any influence in increasing the popularity of science within education. Moreover, the centres have become perceived predominantly as places for children. International trends suggest that regaining the adult audience might be possible through greater emphasis on scientific research outcomes and their social and economic implications, rather than interactive exhibits portraying scientific principles through idealized and simplified laboratory experiments. In New Zealand, the popularity of science festivals-initiated a few years ago-and the recent growth of cafe scientifiques, offer promise in this direction. Additional funding for these and research-based exhibitions might yet come from a component of research grants being required to be spent on the promotion of research to the public.

Hodgins, P. and P. Thompson (2011). "Taking the Romance out of Extraction: Contemporary Canadian Artists and the Subversion of the Romantic/Extractive Gaze." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(4): 393-410.	As in many nation-states, Canadian modernity viewed nature through two seemingly opposed gazes: the extractive and the romantic. In many ways, the Romantic movement was a response to the de-humanizing effects of industrial extraction, a process that summarily stripped the natural world of spirit and meaning. For many working within this representational tradition, however, the search for ontological meaning was a question of developing techniques and technologies that will allow us to "see'' the spiritual qualities of nature, to see that it can also be mined, assayed, and sold as a spiritual resource that will provide us with metaphysical comfort in the cold and meaningless universe created by the extractive gaze. In this essay, we examine the work of four contemporary Canadian artists who deploy postmodernist strategies of citation and parody to reveal the hidden connection between Canadian landscape art and extractive processes. In so doing, their work seeks to destroy the comforting and familiar pleasures of the extractive and romantic gazes and force Canadians to develop new ways of thinking about our relationship to nature.

Hoewe, J. and L. Ahern (2017). "First-Person Effects of Emotional and Informational Messages in Strategic Environmental Communications Campaigns." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 810-820.	This study examined the first- and third-person effects of emotional and informational messages, particularly relating to the critical issue areas of energy, the environment, and global warming. Due to intense political polarization on such issues, it also explored the role of political party identification. The results of an experiment indicated that informational messages about the environment produced third-person effects, while environmental advertisements meant to evoke emotion caused first-person effects. Moreover, emotional environmental advertisements appealed more to Republicans and those who did not support a political party. As such, indirect, emotional messages appear to represent an opportunity for strategic environmental communicators to design campaigns that resonate with potentially unreceptive audiences.

Hoffmann, J. A. (2018). ""Organic is More of an American Term...We Are Traditional Farmers": Discourses of Place-based Organic Farming, Community, Heritage, and Sustainability." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(6): 807-824.	The following study looks at how traditional, organic, cooperative farmers starting a new farming cooperative in the US Southwest communicate about their farming as a set of (sustainable) cultural practices. The study draws on environmental communication theory, the theory of the coordinated management of meaning, and Vandana Shiva's three-tiered economic model to construct a communication-based framework through which to view farmers' stories about sustainability. This framework is productive, showing how some Nuevo Mexicano farmers (and others) orient toward farming, sustenance, and human-nature relationships through community, family, heritage, and education. Moreover, in addition to a conceptualization of sustainability as specific practices for nurturing and enduring in environments, communities, and organizations/institutions, sustainability can be understood as embedded ecocultural and historical experience with cross-cultural parallels in land-based communities. This study advances the ethical duty of environmental communication to better understand the ways in which environmental discourse and ecocultural and material realities are imbricated, as well as the call for such discursive study to be grounded in phenomenological experience of the natural world.

Hoijer, B. (2010). "Emotional anchoring and objectification in the media reporting on climate change." Public Understanding of Science 19(6): 717-731.	Using the framework of social representations theory - more precisely the concepts of anchoring and objectification - this article analyses the emotions on which the media reporting on climate change draws. Emotions are thereby regarded as discursive phenomena. A qualitative analysis of two series in Swedish media on climate change, one in a tabloid newspaper and one in public service television news, is presented showing how the verbal and visual representations are attached to emotions of fear, hope, guilt, compassion and nostalgia. It is further argued that emotional representations of climate change may on the one hand enhance public engagement in the issue, but on the other hand may draw attention away from climate change as the abstract, long-term phenomenon of a statistical character that it is.

Holland, K., et al. (2012). "Risk, expert uncertainty, and Australian news media: public and private faces of expert opinion during the 2009 swine flu pandemic." Journal of Risk Research 15(6): 657-671.	During the outbreak of emerging infectious diseases scientists and public health officials play a key role in informing communities about what is happening, why and what they can do about it, and the news media are critical to how expert knowledge is presented to the public. Therefore, it is crucial to examine the media-oriented practices of experts and to gauge their perceptions of risk communication during public health emergencies. This study investigates the experiences of scientists and public health officials who were sources for the Australian news media during the 2009 pH1N1 (swine flu) pandemic. The paper discusses the perception among some participants that their colleagues were 'toeing the party' line as distinct from offering individual 'expert opinion', and identifies the different meanings they associated with responsible expert risk communication. In their encounters with the media some indicated frustration with news media constraints, while others demonstrated an internalization of the kind of skills required to play the 'media game'. The paper discusses the ways in which scientific experts balanced their roles and responsibilities in the context of institutional pressures to be an active media performer. The study affirms the importance of looking beyond media texts and to the activities and perceptions of media sources in order to fully appreciate framing contests, especially when there is a suggestion that dissenting views on disease risk are restricted from entering public debate.

Holland, S. and S. Miller (1997). "Science in the early Athenaeum: A mirror of crystallization." Public Understanding of Science 6(2): 111-130.	The Athenaeum, one of the most influential weekly magazines of Victorian Britain, was launched in 1828, towards the end of the period which saw the crystallization of science out of eighteenth-century natural philosophy and the differentiation of the individual sciences one from another. We examine the magazine's coverage of specific scientific areas in the year from May 1828 to April 1829, looking at what it defined as science and how it arrived at its definitions. The picture that emerges is complex, influenced by editorial preferences as well as more clearly discernible objective criteria. But, at this stage, The Athenaeum appears to be opposed to opening up a gulf between the scientifically literate and the rest of its readership, reminding science of its debt to earlier endeavours.

Holliman, R. (2004). "Media coverage of cloning: a study of media content, production and reception." Public Understanding of Science 13(2): 107-130.	This paper presents the results of empirical research that analyzed UK news media coverage of cloning. More specifically, it describes how quantitative and qualitative methods were used to examine the production, content and reception of newspaper and television news coverage of cloning. The paper documents the results of a systematic analysis of two years of media content (1996 and 1997), a period that includes the announcement that a Finn Dorset sheep (Dolly) had been cloned from a somatic cell. Interviews with media professionals and the Roslin Institute examined the processes of mediation involved in producing this coverage. A reception analysis, which investigated the significance of this coverage in informing respondents' views about cloning, showed that these respondents were particularly influenced by coverage of Dolly the sheep. In conclusion, the paper considers how media coverage of cloning might influence the construction of scientific citizenship.

Holmberg, T. and M. Ideland (2012). "Secrets and lies: "selective openness" in the apparatus of animal experimentation." Public Understanding of Science 21(3): 354-368.	Researchers and other (human) actors within the apparatus of animal experimentation find themselves in a tight corner. They rely on public acceptance to promote their legitimacy and to receive funding. At the same time, those working with animal experimentation take risks by going public, fearing that the public will misunderstand their work and animal rights activists may threaten them. The dilemma that emerges between openness and secrecy is fairly prevalent in scientific culture as a whole, but the apparatus of animal experimentation presents specific patterns of technologies of secrets. The aim of the paper is to describe and analyse the meanings of secrets and openness in contemporary animal experimentation. We suggest that these secrets - or "selective openness" - can be viewed as grease in the apparatus of animal experimentation, as a unifying ingredient that permits maintenance of status quo in human/animal relations and preserves existing institutional public/science relations.

Holmes, B. J., et al. (2009). "Communicating with the public during health crises: experts' experiences and opinions." Journal of Risk Research 12(6): 793-807.	Governments and health agencies worldwide are planning for a potential influenza pandemic. Their plans acknowledge the importance of public communication during an outbreak and include related guidelines and strategies. Emerging infectious disease (EID) communication is a new addition to the literature, drawing on health promotion communication, crisis communication and environmental/technological risk communication. This paper adds to the literature, exploring the notion of 'effective communication during health crises' by reporting on interviews with 22 public health officials, scientists and communications professionals responsible for communicating with the public. When analyzed in the context of the risk communication literature, the interviews reveal several considerations for health risk communicators. First, given the important role that mass media will play in an EID outbreak, there is an urgent need for public health to build partnerships with journalists based on an understanding of the two parties' unique societal roles. Second, seemingly practical communications considerations - such as how certain to be about information before sharing it and whether to engage in two-way communication with the public - have ethical dimensions that deserve attention. Third, there are unique challenges associated with communicating uncertainty, which would benefit from an exploration of the role of trust in health crisis communication.

Holt, J., et al. (2018). "Bayesian Networks to Compare Pest Control Interventions on Commodities Along Agricultural Production Chains." Risk Analysis 38(2): 297-310.	The production of an agricultural commodity involves a sequence of processes: planting/growing, harvesting, sorting/grading, postharvest treatment, packing, and exporting. A Bayesian network has been developed to represent the level of potential infestation of an agricultural commodity by a specified pest along an agricultural production chain. It reflects the dependency of this infestation on the predicted level of pest challenge, the anticipated susceptibility of the commodity to the pest, the level of impact from pest control measures as designed, and any variation from that due to uncertainty in measure efficacy. The objective of this Bayesian network is to facilitate agreement between national governments of the exporters and importers on a set of phytosanitary measures to meet specific phytosanitary measure requirements to achieve target levels of protection against regulated pests. The model can be used to compare the performance of different combinations of measures under different scenarios of pest challenge, making use of available measure performance data. A case study is presented using a model developed for a fruit fly pest on dragon fruit in Vietnam; the model parameters and results are illustrative and do not imply a particular level of fruit fly infestation of these exports; rather, they provide the most likely, alternative, or worst-case scenarios of the impact of measures. As a means to facilitate agreement for trade, the model provides a framework to support communication between exporters and importers about any differences in perceptions of the risk reduction achieved by pest control measures deployed during the commodity production chain.

Hom, A. G., et al. (2011). "The framing of risk and implications for policy and governance: the case of EMF." Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 319-333.	The conceptualization of risk as objective, subjective, real or perceived has huge implications for its management as regards policy and governance. The sociological literature concerned with the science, technology and risks associated with electromagnetic fields (EMF) can be broadly divided into two main bodies of literature. The Social Amplification of Risk Framework (SARF) which sees risk as both an objective yet subjective phenomenon and the anthropological branch of Science and Technology Studies (STS) which stems from a more constructivist premise. These distinct bodies of knowledge frame the separate components of the EMF issue differently. Distinct attitudes to uncertainty and ignorance have huge implications for the subsequent governance of risk. How these two distinct bodies of knowledge consequently elaborate strategies of risk communication, public education and public participation gives us insight into the projected relationship between science and society, experts and laypeople, and technocrats and citizens.

Hong, H. (2015). "Audience responses to television news coverage of medical advances: The mediating role of audience emotions and identification." Public Understanding of Science 24(6): 697-711.	Exemplifying a real person in news stories has become a popular journalistic technique to describe an event or issue. With the frequent appearance of medical news reports in local television in recent years, this news presentation style is widely believed to help audiences better engage in and understand complex medical information and to influence their perceptions and judgments. In terms of television news coverage of medical advances, this study investigates how audiences respond to embedded human examples (mainly patients who experience benefits from the advances) and to overall news stories, and how such responses are related to their perception of portrayed medical advances. The experimental results indicate that news stories with a human example were more likely to intensify the audience's positive emotions than those without, which in turn influenced favorable perceptions of the described medical advance. In addition, the extent to which the audience identified with a human example (in particular, sympathy) mediated the relationship between the audience's involvement in the news story and its perception of the portrayed medical advance.

Hood, J. (2003). "Closed circuit television systems: a failure in risk communication?" Journal of Risk Research 6(3): 233-251.	This article discusses the growth in the UK of the use of public space closed circuit television (CCTV) systems as a means of controlling risk. The evidence as to the efficacy of CCTV is equivocal, but despite this successive UK governments have extolled the virtues of the technology, and have made money available to fund a large number of systems. There has been little debate outside the academic literature on the use of CCTV, therefore there is an apparent paradox between CCTV's use as a medium for communication and the paucity of risk communication from government to the public. Due to apparent public acquiescence to the use of CCTV, government appears to have felt that informed debate is not required. Using a multimethod case study of the largest residential-area CCTV system in Scotland, it is concluded that there is a strong desire amongst the public for CCTV, suggesting that at present they have been unconcerned at the lack of policy debate and hard empirical evidence.

Hooff, S. B., et al. (2017). "Seeing the Wind (Farm): Applying Q-methodology to Understand the Public's Reception of the Visuals Around a Wind Farm Development." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(5): 700-722.	This research investigates the reception of the visual representations of a wind farm (WF) development by local stakeholders. Using non-verbal Qmethodology, residents of Lesvos' island, Greece, sort images according to how these images represented their opinion about the proposed Aegean Link WF project. We found three opinion types. The "Risk Averter" type is focused on the various risks of constructing and operating the Aegean Link wind development. The "Green Developer" type believes that the renewable energy project will benefit both their local community and the environment. The "Realist" type defers to expert knowledge to make decisions about project outcomes and is sceptical of media bias. While the former two types seem to form their visual opinions based on whether they are in favour or against (respectively) of the WF development, the Realist opinion is rather guided by carefully considering whether the visual stimuli are representative of the project's actual characteristics.

Hopke, J. E. (2012). "Water Gives Life: Framing an Environmental Justice Movement in the Mainstream and Alternative Salvadoran Press." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(3): 365-382.	This article explores mainstream and alternative press discourses of conflict over metallic mining in El Salvador. Through identifying mainstream and counter-frames, I show how an anti-mining movement achieved a position of short-term prominence within the dominant media discourse surrounding gold mining. However, even when the movement was able to break into the mainstream press, the resulting news coverage reproduced the nation-state's traditional power structure. In contrast, the alternative press challenged the neoliberal economic system, presenting a counter-narrative of community rights and a negligent national government that failed to protect the environment and health of its citizens. In this comparative analysis, I argue that by reframing dominant narratives of economic progress toward community rights and environmental justice, alternative media can act in synergy with environmental justice movements to discursively break a cycle of environmental inequity by collectively reimagining a more sustainable and just future.

Hopke, J. E. (2016). "Translocal anti-fracking activism: an exploration of network structure and tie content." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(3): 380-394.	In order to develop conceptual models that reflect the realities of networked communicative processes scholars must examine both the underlying network structure and the content of these ties. Using mixed methods, I apply a relational perspective to the role of digital technologies in transnational organizing, using activism against high-volume hydraulic fracturing as a case study. In-depth interviews are combined with social network analysis of hyper-linkages between organizations supporting a day of action calling for a ban on fracking, Global Frackdown. Analysis shows that activism against unconventional fossil fuels brings together very localized concerns about environmental risks associated with extractive industries with more abstract global concerns. I apply the concept of translocal to examine environmental organizations and movements. This conceptual shift focuses on the brokerage role of global-minded local groups in mediating global issues back to the hyper-local scale. While international NGOs play a coordinating role, local groups with a global worldview can connect transnational movements to the hyper-local scale by networking with groups that are too small to appear in a transnational network.

Hopke, J. E. and M. Simis (2017). "Discourse over a contested technology on Twitter: A case study of hydraulic fracturing." Public Understanding of Science 26(1): 105-120.	High-volume hydraulic fracturing, a drilling simulation technique commonly referred to as fracking, is a contested technology. In this article, we explore discourse over hydraulic fracturing and the shale industry on the social media platform Twitter during a period of heightened public contention regarding the application of the technology. We study the relative prominence of negative messaging about shale development in relation to pro-shale messaging on Twitter across five hashtags (#fracking, #globalfrackdown, #natgas, #shale, and #shalegas). We analyze the top actors tweeting using the #fracking hashtag and receiving @mentions with the hashtag. Results show statistically significant differences in the sentiment about hydraulic fracturing and shale development across the five hashtags. In addition, results show that the discourse on the main contested hashtag #fracking is dominated by activists, both individual activists and organizations. The highest proportion of tweeters, those posting messages using the hashtag #fracking, were individual activists, while the highest proportion of @mention references went to activist organizations.

Hopke, J. E. and M. Simis (2017). "Response to "Word choice as political speech': Hydraulic fracturing is a partisan issue." Public Understanding of Science 26(1): 124-126.	In 2015, Hopke & Simis published an analysis of social media discourse around hydraulic fracturing. Grubert (2016) offered a commentary on the research, highlighting the politicization of terminology used in the discourse on this topic. The present article is a response to Grubert (2016)'s commentary, in which we elaborate on the distinctions between terminology used in social media discourse around hydraulic fracturing (namely, frack,' fracking,' frac,' and fracing'). Additionally preliminary analysis supports the claim that industry-preferred terminology is severely limited in its reach. When industry actors opt-out of the discourse, the conversation followed by the majority of lay audiences is dominated by activists. exacerbating the political schism on the issue.

Horlick-Jones, T. (2008). "Communities of risk research and risk practice: divided by a common language?" Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 169-174.	This short commentary paper provides a critical, but supportive, discussion of the paper by Lofstedt and 6 (L&6). Three suggestions are made. First, that L&6 make certain unsatisfactory assumptions about the underlying problems faced by risk communication initiatives. Second, that one should not be too surprised about the lack of dissemination of risk communication knowledge across different substantive risk areas, given the diversity of the risk research and risk practice communities. Third, that L&6 present an agenda for risk communication that has perhaps not kept pace with some recent developments, in particular those concerning citizen engagement.

Horlick-Jones, T. and A. Prades (2015). "Translating between social worlds of policy and everyday life: The development of a group-based method to support policymaking by exploring behavioural aspects of sustainable consumption." Public Understanding of Science 24(7): 811-826.	A large international literature on how lay citizens make sense of various aspects of science and technology has been generated by investigations which utilise small group methods. Within that literature, focus group and other group-based methods have come to co-exist, and to some extent, hybridise, with the use of small groups in citizen engagement initiatives. In this article, we report on how we drew upon these methodological developments in the design and operationalisation of a policymaking support tool (STAVE). This tool has been developed to gain insight, in a relatively speedy and cost-effective way, into practical details of the everyday lived experience of people's lives, as relating to the sustainability of corresponding practices. An important challenge we faced was how, in Kuhn's terms, to translate' between the forms of life corresponding to the world of policymaking and the world of everyday domestic life. We examine conceptual and methodological aspects of how the tool was designed and assembled, and then trialled in the context of active real-world collaborations with policymaking organisations. These trials were implemented in six European countries, where they were used to support work on live policy issues concerned with sustainable consumption.

Horlick-Jones, T., et al. (2012). "Investigating the degree of "stigma" associated with nuclear energy technologies: A cross-cultural examination of the case of fusion power." Public Understanding of Science 21(5): 514-533.	The extent to which nuclear energy technologies are, in some sense, "stigmatised" by historical environmental and military associations is of particular interest in contemporary debates about sustainable energy policy. Recent claims in the literature suggest that despite such stigmatisation, lay views on such technologies may be shifting towards a "reluctant acceptance," in the light of concerns about issues like anthropogenic climate change. In this paper, we report on research into learning and reasoning processes concerned with a largely unknown nuclear energy technology; namely fusion power. We focus on the role of the nuclear label, or "brand," in informing how lay citizens make sense of the nature of this technology. Our findings derive from a comparative analysis of data generated in Spain and Britain, using the same methodology.

Horlick-Jones, T., et al. (2007). "Citizen engagement processes as information systems: the role of knowledge and the concept of translation quality." Public Understanding of Science 16(3): 259-278.	An important direction in recent thinking about public understanding of science and technology is embodied in the international trend within many democratic countries towards the promotion of citizen engagement. These developments entail the participation and deliberative involvement by lay publics in planning, decision-making and policy-making situations. In this paper we argue that citizen engagement exercises can usefully be understood as information systems. This characterization leads us to propose that the effectiveness by which such exercises utilize sources of knowledge-what we term their translation quality-should be adopted as a new criterion for their evaluation. We illustrate the applicability of this proposal by analyzing the GM Nation? public debate, a govemment-sponsored citizen engagement exercise that took place in Britain in 2002-3.

Hornmoen, H. (2018). ""Environmentally Friendly Oil and Gas Production": Analyzing Governmental Argumentation and Press Deliberation on Oil Policy." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 232-246.	This article exemplifies an approach to analyzing political arguments and press deliberation on the issue of climate change and oil policy. I apply political discourse analysis to examine an oil minister's press conference presentation of the key official document on Norway's future oil policy, and evaluate how he attempted to reconcile the country's expansive petroleum policy with its self-proclaimed ambition of being world leading in responsible climate policy. The analysis displays how the minister's argumentation served to legitimate an expansive oil policy by projecting an altruistic motivation and invoking the authority of the tradition of the industry. This is supplemented by an analysis of newspaper editorials and commentaries on the speech, identifying a major split in viewpoints between local and national newspapers. The analyses evaluate arguments in an explicit manner, for example by critically questioning their value premises, thus suggesting an approach that could benefit critical research on environmental communication.

Horsbol, A. (2018). "Co-Creating Green Transition: How Municipality Employees Negotiate their Professional Identities as Agents of Citizen Involvement in a Cross-Local Setting." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(5): 701-714.	Citizen involvement plays an important role in many governmental and municipal attempts towards green transition, reflecting a departure from a deficit model of public communication towards participatory ambitions of engaging citizens. Recently, the notion of co-creation or co-production has gained importance as a way of conceptualizing and organizing citizen involvement. The current study examines how four municipality partners in Sweden and Denmark embark on a common project on citizen involvement and co-creation as an avenue to green transition, addressing private decisions of individual citizens or families where the municipality has no legislative competence. By analysing how several local authorities with different but similar challenges negotiate and jointly identify themselves as agents of citizen involvement, the study offers an upscaling to what may be termed the plura-local level. Analytically, the study takes a discourse approach, combining close readings of texts and talk with an interdiscursive and diachronic analysis.

Horst, M. (2005). "Cloning sensations: mass mediated articulation of social responses to controversial biotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 14(2): 185-200.	The 1998 announcement by American researcher Richard Seed that he intended to clone a human person for reproductive reasons created a large amount of journalistic attention and controversy in the Danish mass media. Developing a theoretical framework inspired by Bruno Latour, this paper analyzes the mass mediated articulation of this announcement as an exploration of the socially viable interpretations of human cloning within the controversial field of biotechnology. An inductive analysis of scripts employed by four national newspapers identifies four main scripts: scientific education, pragmatic regulation, absolute resistance and fatalistic irony. All scripts generally reject the idea of human cloning, but they are found to represent distinctively different forms of social response corresponding to the classification of different cultural dialogues on risk.

Horst, M. (2013). "A Field of Expertise, the Organization, or Science Itself? Scientists' Perception of Representing Research in Public Communication." Science Communication 35(6): 758-779.	Social and political interest in science regularly prompts scientists to assume the role of public spokesperson. The article investigates this role of representing science as both speaking on behalf of science and symbolically standing for science and its organizations. With inspiration from the field of organizational communication, it is argued that science communication should be considered as an activity intimately linked with perceptions of identity and organizational culture. When scientists communicate publicly, they do not just disseminate knowledge, they also represent a particular sense making about what science, scientists, and scientific organizations are. Based on a qualitative analysis of 20 leading Danish scientists' views on their own role in public communication, three different modes of representation are identified: Expert, Research Manager, and Guardian of Science. Each of these modes of representation implies particular notions of quality, audience, motivation, and learning in science communication.

Horst, M. (2014). "On the weakness of strong ties." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 43-47.	Departing from experiences at a recent conference on Science in Dialogue, the paper reflects on the significance of the closure of the Danish Board of Technology as a government funded institution. It is argued that the lack of active support from the Danish public might be an unanticipated consequence of the Board's successful institutionalisation.

Horton, C., et al. (2017). "Voice as Entry to Agriculturalists' Conservationist Identity: A Cultural Inventory of the Yellowstone River." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(5): 609-623.	We explored the communicative construction of a conservationist identity among primary producers by excavating voices of agriculturalists operating along the Yellowstone River (Montana, USA). We used a cultural inventory approach to discover and then listen to informants' voices as they constructed their conservation identity. Those who self-identified as conservationists talked about their ecological and social responsibilities, and described challenges they faced in protecting individual resources and system processes of the watershed. For these agriculturalists, conservation and production are inextricably linked, and enable them to provide a sustainable resource base for future generations. Insight from these voices enhances understanding of what sustainability could mean to those who self-identify as both conservationists and primary producers.

Horwitz, H. (1999). "Darwinism comes to America." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 261-262.
	
Hosgor, E., et al. (2013). "Incorporating seismic concerns in site selection for enhanced geothermal power generation." Journal of Risk Research 16(8): 1021-1036.	Enhanced (or engineered) geothermal systems (EGS) for generating electricity may provide significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, if they can be successfully sited. One potential threat to that siting is induced seismicity, which has led to EGS projects being stopped in Switzerland and Germany. We create and implement a framework for identifying regions with low risk of induced seismicity risk. Using a widely known and used model with high spatial resolution, we find that, to a first approximation, 60% of the best areas for EGS plants based on purely geological considerations meet this standard. Taking advantage of this potential requires two next steps in these regions. One is using the best available tools for local modeling of triggered seismicity, rather than the first-order national model used here. The second is creating a viable social process for securing the informed consent of local communities.

Hosseini, S. M. and R. Rezaei (2011). "Factors affecting the perceptions of Iranian agricultural researchers towards nanotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 513-524.	This descriptive survey research was undertaken to design appropriate programs for the creation of a positive perception of nanotechnology among their intended beneficiaries. In order to do that, the factors affecting positive perceptions were defined. A stratified random sample of 278 science board members was selected out of 984 researchers who were working in 22 National Agricultural Research Institutions (NARIs). Data were collected by using a mailed questionnaire. The descriptive results revealed that more than half of the respondents had "low" or "very low" familiarity with nanotechnology. Regression analysis indicated that the perceptions of Iranian NARI Science Board Members towards nanotechnology were explained by three variables: the level of their familiarity with emerging applications of nanotechnology in agriculture, the level of their familiarity with nanotechnology and their work experiences. The findings of this study can contribute to a better understanding of the present situation of the development of nanotechnology and the planning of appropriate programs for creating a positive perception of nanotechnology.

Hotz, R. L. (2004). "Science in the private interest: Has the lure of profits corrupted biomedical research?" Science Communication 26(2): 230-232.
	
Hovardas, T. (2015). "An "Asymmetric Threat" That Should Have Been Anticipated: Political Discourse on 2007 Wildfires in Greece." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(4): 409-427.	This paper examines the pre-election interpretative repertoires employed by the two main political parties in Greece regarding the 2007 summer wildfires, which have been recorded as the worst natural disaster in contemporary Greek history. This involved a discourse analysis of press releases, interviews, and press conference statements. While the New Democracy governing party initially followed a business-as-usual scenario, comparing the situation with past wildfires under the administration of PASOK (the biggest opposition party), the increasing number of deaths over time rendered any such comparison invalid. In order to regain momentum, the government launched the interpretative repertoire of asymmetric threat, which proved instrumental in helping the government to get re-elected. This political discourse lacked any consideration of broad socioeconomic changes in rural areas in Greece which might have contributed substantially to the severity of the disaster. Implications for wildfire policy are discussed.

Hovardas, T. (2017). "Gold Mining in the Greek "Village of Gaul": Newspaper Coverage of Conflict and Discursive Positioning of Opposing Coalitions." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(5): 667-681.	The present study analysed media discourse on a gold mining controversy in Greece. Social actors shaped a pro-mining and an anti-mining coalition. The "village of Gaul" was a discursive resource used to depict conflict and it could denote either "resistance," for anti-mining advocates, or "anarchy," for pro-mining advocates. The same actor could be found to perform both the role of a powerful majority as well as the role of a repressed minority, which engaged varying scales of reference. Discursive positioning allowed for a switching among majority and minority roles. Each camp attempted to transform incalculable hazards into calculable risks and this was accompanied by a discursive appropriation of the past and the future of the study area. Social divide seems to have advanced discursive positioning of coalitions in a spiral-logic of interactionist confrontation at the cost of losing any common ground. Implications for environmental communication and environmental governance are discussed.

Hove, T., et al. (2015). "How newspapers represent environmental risk: the case of carcinogenic hazards in South Korea." Journal of Risk Research 18(10): 1320-1336.	This study pursues the following aims: to examine how news stories use frames, emotions, and uncertainty to present environmental risk information; to identify which aspects of risk issues they highlight; and to analyze how these stories' representations of risk and uncertainty might differ according to the sources they use. Content analysis of 641 news stories in South Korea over the last decade yields three findings: (1) reassurance was the most frequently used news frame, while uncertainty and emotion were used less often than expected; (2) news stories using government/industry/experts as sources vs. activists/lay people highlighted different news frames and risk information; and (3) the two most frequently used uncertainty presentation formats were single point estimate and verbal estimate. This study contributes to existing literature on the roles of media in environmental risk communication in two ways. First, it examines the specific formats journalists use to present uncertainty about risks. Second, it integrates news frames with the emotional characteristics of risk communication and with differences in risk information characteristics according to source. Implications are discussed regarding how a better understanding of news representations of risk could inform and enhance cooperation between experts and journalists, and lead to more effective environmental risk communication. Finally, this content analysis provides a stepping stone for future research that could further investigate and test how publics respond to risk messages that have varying permutations of emotional content and risk presentation formats.

Hovick, S. R., et al. (2011). "Multiple Health Risk Perception and Information Processing Among African Americans and Whites Living in Poverty." Risk Analysis 31(11): 1789-1799.	We investigated the risk-information-processing behaviors of people living at or near the poverty line. Because significant gaps in health and communication exist among high- and low-income groups, increasing the information seeking and knowledge of poor individuals may help them better understand risks to their health and increase their engagement in health-protective behaviors. Most earlier studies assessed only a single health risk selected by the researcher, whereas we listed 10 health risks and allowed the respondents to identify the one that they worried about most but took little action to prevent. Using this risk, we tested one pathway inspired by the risk information seeking and processing model to examine predictors of information insufficiency and of systematic processing and extended this pathway to include health-protective action. A phone survey was conducted of African Americans and whites living in the southern United States with an annual income of <=$35,000 (N = 431). The results supported the model pathway: worry partially mediated the relationship between perceived risk and information insufficiency, which, in turn, increased systematic processing. In addition, systematic processing increased health-protective action. Compared with whites and better educated respondents, African Americans and respondents with little education had significantly higher levels of information insufficiency but higher levels of systematic processing and health-protective action. That systematic processing and knowledge influenced health behavior suggests a potential strategy for reducing health disparities.

Howard, H. C. and E. Iwarsson (2018). "Mapping uncertainty in genomics." Journal of Risk Research 21(2): 117-128.	The relatively novel and dynamic science of genomics holds many unknowns for stakeholders, and in particular for researchers and clinicians, as well as for participants and patients. At a time when many authors predict a future in which genomic medicine will be the norm, it is particularly relevant to discuss the unknowns surrounding genetics and genomics, including the notions of risk and uncertainty. This article will present a discussion regarding the uncertainty pertaining specifically to high throughput sequencing approaches, including the topic of incidental findings. This discussion will be guided by a taxonomy of uncertainty conceptualised around three areas of uncertainty: the source of uncertainty, the issues of uncertainty and the loci of uncertainty. This taxonomy can be used as a tool by all stakeholders involved in genomics to help further understand and anticipate uncertainties in genomics. Furthermore, to better contextualize this information, and also because this contribution is born out of an international project titled Mind the Risk', which addresses risk information in genetics and genomics from many different disciplinary perspectives, another aim of this article is to briefly present the basic issues pertaining to the unknowns, risks, and uncertainties of genetics as well as genomics for an audience of non-geneticists. Ultimately, the mapping out of uncertainty in genomics should allow for a better characterization of the uncertainty and consequently for a better management and communication of these uncertainties to end-users (research participants and patients).

Howarth, A. (2013). "The weakest link in existing studies: media-government risk interactions." Journal of Risk Research 16(1): 1-18.	This article argues that mediagovernment interactions are critical to the trajectory of risk debates. These interactions are dynamic, entailing multifaceted shifts in responses and counter responses positions, arguments/discourses/representations and actions during the course of a scare. An exploration of such dynamics in the politicalmedia complex is likely to tell us much about how their shifting relationship, roles and engagements influence the trajectory of different risk debates. With this in mind, this article undertakes a systematic and critical evaluation of the extent to which six existing risk frameworks are capable of capturing these interactional dynamics. The six analysed were moral panic, social amplification of risk, advocacy coalition framework, discourse coalition framework, social representation/cultivation analysis and circuit' frameworks. What this evaluation found was a media/policy centrism that undermines a study of both; problematic conceptualizations of communication and hence interactions; and relatively rigid research designs that facilitate a tracing of the contours of a debate but not the interactions within it. The article concludes that there is an urgent need for new frameworks better equipped to capture the interactional dynamics of risk in the politicalmedia complex and it suggests some criteria that might inform such a development.

Hrotic, S. (2014). "The evolution and extinction of science fiction." Public Understanding of Science 23(8): 996-1012.	Science fiction literature reflects our constantly evolving attitudes towards science and technological innovations, and the kinds of societal impacts believed possible. The newly popular subgenre steampunk' shows that these attitudes have significantly shifted. Examined from a cognitive anthropological perspective, science fiction reveals the cultural evolution of the genre as intelligently designed, and implies a cognitive mechanism of group membership reliant on implicit memory. However, such an analysis also suggests that genre science fiction as it was in the 20th century may no longer exist.

Huang, C. J. and J. Allgaier (2015). "What science are you singing? A study of the science image in the mainstream music of Taiwan." Public Understanding of Science 24(1): 112-125.	Previous research showed that pop music bands in the Western world have sometimes included science imagery in their lyrics. Their songs could potentially be helpful facilitators for science communication and public engagement purposes. However, so far no systematic research has been conducted for investigating science in popular music in Eastern cultures. This study explores whether science has been regarded as an element in the creation of popular mainstream music, and examines the content and quantity of distribution through an analysis of mainstream music lyrics, to reflect on the conditions of the absorption of science into popular culture. The results indicate that expressions related to astronomy and space science feature very prominently. Most of the lyrics are connected to emotional states and mood expressions and they are only very rarely related to actual issues of science. The implications for science communication and further research are discussed in the final section.

Huang, H. F. (2017). "Transferring scientific discovery to the public: The intramercurial planet Vulcan in 1860." Public Understanding of Science 26(3): 393-397.
	
Hubbard, L. A. and J. M. Ottoson (1997). "When a bottom-up innovation meets itself as a top-down policy - The AVID untracking program." Science Communication 19(1): 41-55.	While practitioner-bared research holds potential for closing the theory and practice gap, it is unclear how such research contributes to the policy and practice gap. This case study traces an educational innovation from its practice-based creation to its mandated implementation as public policy. Findings indicate that these bottom-up innovations face the same kind of implementation challenges as their top-down cousins. The authors take the position that practice-based innovations can engage in multiple contexts if knowledge creation (research) continues into knowledge utilization (policy and practice). The authors argue that this happens when knowledge utilization, like implementation is understood as mutual adaptation. If innovations are frozen as knowledge creations in time and context, they cannot mutually adapt elsewhere. The result is that the good innovations of one practitioner will remain just that.

Hudson, N., et al. (2009). ""Public" perceptions of gamete donation: a research review." Public Understanding of Science 18(1): 61-77.	This paper reviews the literature on "public" perceptions of the practice of gamete (egg and sperm) donation in the treatment of infertility. Despite regular "consultation" exercises in the UK on the manner in which infertility treatments should be regulated, there is little sense of how a range of public groups respond to developments in this area. The key themes from thirty-three articles, chapters and reports are discussed. The review reveals the limited nature of our current knowledge of public understandings of and attitudes towards gamete donation as a form of infertility treatment which has been readily available and widely practiced for many years. The review is critical of the methodological and epistemological basis of much of the work in this area and argues that there is a strong case for social scientific research to attempt to capture the perceptions of a wider range of people who are rarely included in formal public consultations and often similarly excluded from research studies.

Huijer, M. (2003). "Reconsidering democracy - History of the human genome project." Science Communication 24(4): 479-502.	What options are open for people-citizens, politicians, and other nonscientists-to become actively involved in and anticipate new directions in the life sciences? In addressing this question, this article focuses on the start of the Human Genome Project (1985-1990). By contrasting various models of democracy (liberal, republican, deliberative), I examine the democratic potential the models provide for citizens' involvement in setting priorities and funding patterns related to big science projects. To enhance the democratizing of big science projects and give citizens opportunities to reflect, anticipate, and negotiate on new directions in science and technology at a global level, liberal democracy with its national scope and representative structure does not suffice. Although republican (communicative) and deliberative (associative) democracy models meet the need for greater citizen involvement, the ways to achieve the ideal at a global level still remain to be developed.

Hultberg, J. (1997). "The two cultures revisited." Science Communication 18(3): 194-215.	This article addresses the question of two cultures, that is, the relationship between the culture of natural scientists and the culture of literary intellectuals, a distinction made by C. P. Snow in his 1959 lecture, The Two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution This reading of Snow draws from the theoretical and methodological strategies discussed by scholars interested in the supposed dichotomy between literature and science. Similar trends also can be found in social studies of science, where the constructive and rhetorical practices of scientists have been emphasized.

Hultman, G. and C. R. Horberg (1998). "Knowledge competition and personal ambition - A theoretical framework for knowledge utilization and action in context." Science Communication 19(4): 328-348.	This article focuses on knowledge and the use of research in relation to local actors in social situations by analyzing data from ongoing research in Swedish schools. The authors propose a theoretical framework for knowledge utilization. It introduces the concept of knowledge competition in relation to teachers' personal views, arguing that the use of knowledge must be understood in its social context and in relation to how different people comprehend knowledge. The authors explore the utilization of research-based knowledge under different themes: teachers' views, utilization, context, knowledge as personal and situated, and thinking and acting. There is often a measure of competition inherent in the desire to obtain new knowledge, where competition is understood to be the relationship that arises between the teacher and the context and a process, that is, characterized as being socially negotiated. The authors conclude that a teacher's knowledge is mainly personal, specific, and action oriented concerning its origin, content, and function. Local actors (i.e., teachers) may be influenced more by frames, personal needs, and driving forces than by formal research and knowledge created out of their local context A theoretical framework for knowledge use and action in context is presented.

Hung, H. C. and T. W. Wang (2011). "Determinants and Mapping of Collective Perceptions of Technological Risk: The Case of the Second Nuclear Power Plant in Taiwan." Risk Analysis 31(4): 668-683.	Nuclear power is a highly controversial and salient example of environmental risk. The siting or operating of a nuclear power plant often faces widespread public opposition. Although studies of public perceptions of nuclear power date back to 1970s, little research attempts to explain the spatial heterogeneity of risk attitude toward nuclear power among individuals or communities. This article intends to improve the knowledge about the major factors contributing to nuclear power plant risk perceptions by mapping the geographical patterns of local risk perception and examining the determinants in forming the nature and distribution of the perceived risk among potentially affected population. The analysis was conducted by a case study of the Second Nuclear Power Plant (SNPP) in Taiwan by using a novel methodology that incorporates a comprehensive risk perception (CRP) model into an ethnographic approach called risk perception mapping (RPM). First, we examined the determinants of local nuclear power risk perceptions through the CRP model and multivariate regression analysis. Second, the results were integrated with the RPM approach to map and explain the spatial pattern of risk perceptions. The findings demonstrate that the respondents regard the nuclear power plant as an extremely high-risk facility, causing them to oppose the SNPP and reject the compensation payment to accept its continuing operation. Results also indicate that perceptions of nuclear power risk were mainly influenced by social trust, psychological and socioeconomic attributes, proximity, and the perceived effects of the SNPP on the quality of everyday life.

Hunka, A. D., et al. (2015). "Ecological risk assessment of pesticides in the EU: what factors and groups influence policy changes?" Journal of Risk Research 18(9): 1165-1183.	For the last couple of years, European environmental risk assessment (ERA) regulations have undergone significant changes. The new 1107/2009 directive which came into effect in 2011 has triggered an on-going debate on defining specific protection goals for ERA. During this period, we conducted a study on policy change among the most influential ERA stakeholders from Europe. We interviewed 43, purposively sampled, participants from the European safety authorities, plant protection product industry and academia. Transcribed interviews underwent thematic analysis conducted separately by two coders. As we followed the advocacy coalition framework, our findings focus on stakeholders' processes, interrelations and values behind the ERA policy change. The main challenges emerging from our analysis turned out to be the slow uptake of scientific developments into ERA and very broadly defined protection goals. The use of safety factors and cut-off criteria left risk assessors with many uncertainties. With ERA in its current form it turned out to be impossible to determine whether the current scheme is over- or under-protective. Still, the study shows that the problem of over- or under-protectiveness lies deep in the perception of stakeholders and depends greatly on their priorities. Academics strive for better ecological relevance as a priority. They have concerns that ERA is oversimplified. Regulators worry that ERA relies too much on risk mitigation and is possibly not protective enough, but at the same time, the majority believes that the assessment is well established and straightforward to follow. Industry representatives would like to see ERA based more on probabilistic risk assessment. Recent changes, according to risk assessment and management practitioners have led to an inevitable increase in complexity, which is not perceived as a positive thing, and does not necessarily translate into better risk assessment.

Hunter, R. L., et al. (1994). "Opportunities and Impediments for Risk-Based Standards - Some Views from a Workshop." Risk Analysis 14(5): 863-868.	Techniques for performing scientific risk assessments for a wide variety of chemical and radiological hazards present in the environment and workplace are available.  Speakers at a workshop sponsored by the Environmental and Public/Occupational Health Standard's Steering Group addressed both the state-of-the-art in risk assessment and areas of difficulty that require further research.  The Steering Group concluded that within the limits of the available data, risk-assessment techniques are a useful tool in decision-making.  In the past, many government agencies have not been effective either in listening to public concerns or in communicating technical or scientific information about risks.  This has been true at all levels of government.  Workshop speakers discussed some ways that government agencies can more effectively communicate with the public.  The Steering Group concluded that major efforts must be made to ensure that two-way communication takes place.  Thus the results of the workshop show that effective management of risk requires both a scientific assessment of risk and a responsive consideration of the public's perception of risk.  Intensive efforts must be made to ensure that effective two-way communication takes place between members of the public and the appropriate government agencies.

Hunton, J. and J. M. Rose (2005). "Cellular telephones and driving performance: The effects of attentional demands on motor vehicle crash risk." Risk Analysis 25(4): 855-866.	This study examines the effects of conversation mode and split-attention communication training on driving performance. The study is based on an experiment where drivers with and without communication training (pilots vs. nonpilots) completed a simulated driving course while involved in one of three conversation modes: no conversation, conversation with passenger, or conversation on a hands-free cellular telephone. Results indicate that cellular telephone conversations consume more attention and interfere more with driving than passenger conversations. Cell phone conversations lack the nonverbal cues available during close-contact conversations and conversation participants expend significant cognitive resources to compensate for the lack of such cues. The results also demonstrate that communication training may reduce the hazardous effects of cell phone conversations on driving performance.

Hurtado, M. C. and J. A. L. Cerezo (2012). "Political dimensions of scientific culture: Highlights from the Ibero-American survey on the social perception of science and scientific culture." Public Understanding of Science 21(3): 369-384.	In this paper, we analyse the data on citizen participation obtained by a recent Ibero-American survey on social perception of science and scientific culture conducted in seven important Ibero-American cities during autumn and winter 2007. The purpose is to analyse the relationship between scientific culture and its behavioural dimensions, especially the willingness to engage in participatory activities. In this respect, we assume that the inclination towards citizen participation generated by processes of scientific education captures relevant political dimensions of scientific culture. The paper combines a quantitative methodology for exploiting demographic data with a qualitative approach to the phenomenon of participation.

Hutchins, B. (2016). "The Many Modalities of Social Networking: The Role of Twitter in Greens Politics." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(1): 25-42.	The popular microblogging service, Twitter, contains a variety of potential orientationsinterpersonal, broadcast, news, advertising, public service, political, and so onin its operation and applications. As an evolving social media platform, specificity and context are essential in understanding its significance and use-value. This paper investigates the multiple modalities of Twitter in the context of formal politics and, in particular, the Greens party in Australia. Presenting original evidence drawn from the Greens Members of Parliament and their advisers, it is shown how Twitter is mobilized in response to particular news agendas and stories, unfolding political events and processes, and an ongoing need for the Greens to speak simultaneously to committed environmentalists and the broader electorate. These uses reveal that Twitter is an important addition to the media ecology mix in the conduct of environmental politics, playing a direct role in political communication, strategies, and actions.

Hutchins, K. and N. Stormer (2013). "Articulating Identity In and Through Maine's North Woods." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(1): 24-41.	Land-use changes can interrupt relationships to place, threaten community identity, and prompt instability, altering the social and physical context and impacting the present and future state of the socialecological system. Approaches that map system changes are needed to understand the effects of natural resource decisions and humannature interactions. In this article, we merge theories of articulation, the event, and symbolic territory into a critical framework to analyze online newspaper article responses and blogs referencing a land-use controversy in the State of Maine, USA. Application of this framework reveals land-use controversies as place-making events that alter contexts and sense of place, and precipitate the re-articulation of identity in relation to, and through, symbolic territory.

Hutchinson, J. R. (1995). "A Multimethod Analysis of Knowledge Use in Social-Policy - Research Use in Decisions Affecting the Welfare of Children." Science Communication 17(1): 90-106.	Several large-scale studies focusing on the use and non-use of social science research have reported findings supporting the view that knowledge is socially constructed and based on the knower's experience and interpretation of events. However, the methods on which these findings are based are incongruent with the constructivist perspective the researchers espouse, The results of the multimethod approach demonstrate that it has greater explanatory power; as evidenced by the increased coefficient of determination (R(2)) when traditional and constructivist methods are combined.

Huttunen, S. and M. Hilden (2014). "Framing the Controversial: Geoengineering in Academic Literature." Science Communication 36(1): 3-29.	Geoengineering is an example of a highly political science-driven topic. We explore how researchers frame geoengineering and what implications these frames have for the science-policy interface and the politicization of science. Our analysis revealed three main ways to frame geoengineering in scientific literature. The Risk-benefit frame emphasizes calculation and further research, the Governance frame emphasizes the need to develop institutions and procedures, and the Natural balance frame focuses on the ethical aspects of geoengineering. The researchers' frames have different political implications, indicating a need to ensure transparency and dialogue at the science-policy nexus.

Huxster, J. K., et al. (2018). "Understanding "understanding" in Public Understanding of Science." Public Understanding of Science 27(7): 756-771.	This study examines the conflation of terms such as "knowledge" and "understanding" in peer-reviewed literature, and tests the hypothesis that little current research clearly distinguishes between importantly distinct epistemic states. Two sets of data are presented from papers published in the journal Public Understanding of Science. In the first set, the digital text analysis tool, Voyant, is used to analyze all papers published in 2014 for the use of epistemic success terms. In the second set of data, all papers published in Public Understanding of Science from 2010-2015 are systematically analyzed to identify instances in which epistemic states are empirically measured. The results indicate that epistemic success terms are inconsistently defined, and that measurement of understanding, in particular, is rarely achieved in public understanding of science studies. We suggest that more diligent attention to measuring understanding, as opposed to mere knowledge, will increase efficacy of scientific outreach and communication efforts.

Hwang, K. (2013). "Effects of the Language Barrier on Processes and Performance of International Scientific Collaboration, Collaborators' Participation, Organizational Integrity, and Interorganizational Relationships." Science Communication 35(1): 3-31.	This article investigates how the language barrier influences technical communication, behavior in the workplace, and communication among international collaborators by studying a case of international collaboration between R&D laboratories-one European based and the other a major Korean company. This study finds that the language barrier is a critical handicap not only to non-English-speaking partners but also to English speakers in scientific collaboration. The language barrier hinders organizational integrity by fostering polarized attitudes toward collaboration. This study reveals a "shadow structure" in the Korean company that contributes to structural deformation due to the language barrier and that Korean engineers often suffer from identity conflicts derived from tension between their professional identity as members of the international scientific community and their lack of proficiency in English.

Hwang, K. J. (2005). "The inferior science and the dominant use of English in knowledge production - A case study of Korean Science and Technology." Science Communication 26(4): 390-427.	This article examines international scientific activities in the context of hierarchical international relations and how English use is related to inequality: in core-periphery relationships. However, the author recognizes that the theoretical concept of colonialist discourse is too dichotomous to apply to the multilayered structure of the real world. To some extent. Traweek's notion of "the acceptance of the Euro-American dominant scientist" can be related to English use ill the means of achieving a competent scientist for nonnative English speakers who are located in the periphery. This becomes a social-structural problem of using another language to nonnative English-speaking scientists and engineers. Korean scientists' and engineers' international scientific activities are greatly motivated by sociocultural determinants such as cultural prejudice, their peripheral position, reputation and recognition, and English competence. Although English use greatly affects their international activities, especially paper publication in international journals, they tend to disregard tire general English problem by separating general English use from scientific English use.

Hwang, Y. and S. H. Jeong (2016). "Information Insufficiency and Information Seeking: An Experiment." Science Communication 38(6): 679-698.	The risk information seeking and processing model predicts information-seeking behavior based on a number of factors, including information insufficiency. Using the risk information seeking and processing model, the present study experimentally manipulated the two components of information insufficiency (i.e., sufficiency threshold and current knowledge). Sufficiency threshold was manipulated using information about radon risk with varying levels of social distance, whereas current knowledge was manipulated using information about radon coping strategies. Results showed that the high sufficiency threshold condition resulted in greater information seeking intention. On the other hand, the current knowledge manipulation did not affect information seeking intention.

Hwang, Y. and B. G. Southwell (2007). "Can a personality trait predict talk about science? Sensation seeking as a science communication targeting variable." Science Communication 29(2): 198-216.	Sensation seeking, a trait that has been invoked by public: health campaign scholars as a targeting variable, also holds promise for informal science education professionals who seek to engage social networks in their promotion efforts. The authors contend that sensation seeking should positively predict talk about science, even after controlling for often-cited predictors such as education, relevant employment, perceived understanding of science, perceived relevance of science, and attitude toward science. Data from a random digit dial telephone survey (N= 667) supported the authors' hypothesis. The authors note connections to the science communication and opinion leadership literatures and encourage future work in this vein.

Ibitayo, O. O. (2006). "Egyptian farmers' attitudes and behaviors regarding agricultural pesticides: Implications for pesticide risk communication." Risk Analysis 26(4): 989-995.	The need to boost pre- and postharvest agricultural productivity serves as a powerful driving force for developing countries to promote the use of agricultural pesticides. Pesticides are, however, "poisons by design" and poisonings resulting from unsafe use of these chemicals are the most prevalent and serious occupational hazards faced by agricultural workers in developing countries. This article provides the results of a study designed to investigate the extent of unsafe use of pesticides by farmers in one of the largest agricultural areas in Egypt, the farmers' knowledge about pesticides, and their preferred sources of receiving risk information on pesticides. The results of this study show a high level of unsafe use of pesticides and inappropriate methods of disposal of empty pesticide containers. Also, knowledge about pesticides is scant. Notwithstanding that more than half of the farmers obtain regular drinking water from wells, most of the respondents were "not sure" as to whether or not pesticides may contaminate groundwater. The low level of knowledge about pesticides can be attributed to relatively low levels of education and that almost all the respondents have never participated in a pesticide education program. Ibis article concludes with a recommendation for pesticide and pesticide use education programs, especially through "ministry officials" who most of the respondents seem to trust regarding receiving pesticide information.

Ignatowski, A. J. and I. Rosenthal (2001). "The chemical accident risk assessment thesaurus: A tool for analyzing and comparing diverse risk assessment processes and definitions." Risk Analysis 21(3): 513-532.	The Chemical Accident Risk Assessment Thesaurus (CARAT) is a database of the laws, regulations, guidance documents, and definitions of terms related to the risk assessment of accidental releases of chemicals from fixed installations. The database also contains information on the application of risk assessment methodologies to specific examples of potential chemical releases. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development urged the development of the Thesaurus to improve the communication among the member countries about the risk assessment of hazardous installations. The difficulty of communication is based in large part on the fact that certain "terms of art" have different meanings in different countries and cultures, or that different terms of art are used to address the same concept. The CARAT is designed to circumvent these difficulties, and is especially useful as a tool to analyze the definitions of terms related to risk assessment. Entries into the CARAT contain information from various international, national, and regional agencies that relate to risk assessment processes and definitions focused on accidental chemical releases. The entire system is accessible via the Internet. Retrieval of information from the CARAT is facilitated by five different searching tools: two of them are designed to search the CARAT for its entries. One facility is designed to search for laws and regulations, specific risk assessment cases (SRA), and risk assessment guidance documents (RAG) related to chemical accidents. The second search facility deals with entries of definitions. The design of the CARAT is ideally suited to capture the sense of definitions that are expressed as either a procedural definition (an "operation on a concept") or a conceptual definitions Oust the "concept"). A powerful third query tool is the "Comparison" facility. This query tool allows the user to compare the details CARAT entries of laws and regulations, SRA, RAG, or definitions, in any combination. The remaining two tools can perform searches by identifying entries that contain either certain combinations of hierarchical or descriptor details. Both types can be conducted in Boolean "and/or" mode.

Ihlen, O. (2009). "Business and Climate Change: The Climate Response of the World's 30 Largest Corporations." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(2): 244-262.	This paper analyzes how central the climate change issue is and how it is treated rhetorically in the non-financial reports of the world's 30 largest corporations. The analysis shows a huge variation in the extent to which this issue is addressed, with some corporations barely mentioning it. Using an adaptation of Aristotelian topics to organize an exploration of those that do address the climate issue, I found four topics are central: (1) the environmental situation is grave; (2) the corporation is in line with the scientific consensus and the international political process on curbing emissions (testimony); (3) the corporation has to take measures to reduce its own emissions (relationship); and (4) the climate challenge poses an opportunity for business (circumstance). There is little to suggest, however, that corporations engage in the radical rethinking of systemic problems that the situation's gravity would seem to call for.

Iles, A. (2007). "Identifying environmental health risks in consumer products: non-governmental organizations and civic epistemologies." Public Understanding of Science 16(4): 371-391.	Chemical politics are increasingly focusing on chemical use in consumer products. Emerging scientific research, including endocrine disrupter studies and body burden surveys, suggests that products are important sources of chemical risks. This article uses the concept of civic epistemology to investigate knowledge production about chemical risks in products. Using the case of phthalates in toys and cosmetics, this article analyzes how environmental health non-governmental organizations are critiquing regulatory science, attempting to change standards of evidence and proof, and introducing data about product use. Briefly comparing developments in the United States and Europe reveals such civic epistemology elements more clearly.

Iles, I. A., et al. (2017). "Understanding the Adoption Process of National Security Technology: An Integration of Diffusion of Innovations and Volitional Behavior Theories." Risk Analysis 37(11): 2246-2259.	After the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the U.S. government initiated several national security technology adoption programs. The American public, however, has been skeptical about these initiatives and adoption of national security technologies has been mandated, rather than voluntary. We propose and test a voluntary behavioral intention formation model for the adoption of one type of new security technology: portable radiation detectors. Portable radiation detectors are an efficient way of detecting radiological and nuclear threats and could potentially prevent loss of life and damage to individuals' health. However, their functioning requires that a critical mass of individuals use them on a daily basis. We combine the explanatory advantages of diffusion of innovation with the predictive power of two volitional behavior frameworks: the theory of reasoned action and the health belief model. A large sample survey (N = 1,482) investigated the influence of factors identified in previous diffusion of innovation research on portable radiation detector adoption intention. Results indicated that nonfinancial incentives, as opposed to financial incentives, should be emphasized in persuasive communications aimed at fostering adoption. The research provides a new integration of diffusion of innovation elements with determinants of volitional behavior from persuasion literature, and offers recommendations on effective communication about new security technologies to motivate public adoption and enhance national safety.

Illman, D. L. and F. Clark (2008). "Visibility of team science - A case study of media coverage of the NSF Science and Technology Centers." Science Communication 30(1): 48-76.	There is a growing trend toward interdisciplinary research, with team science often touted as key to the creation of new knowledge and capabilities important to solving societal problems. But the balance between the funding of team efforts versus smaller grants is an issue that continues to be debated nationally. We analyzed media coverage of 17 active U. S. National Science Foundation (NSF) Science and Technology Centers (STCs) from 2000 to 2006. Research received the greatest coverage (49.5 percent), followed by institutional news (24.4 percent). A center name appeared in 35 percent of the items, and the NSF and STC program were less visible, at 31 percent and 10 percent, respectively. Surprisingly, no significant differences were found between hard news and feature stories in mentions of centers, NSF, or STC. Thus, even with the greater length and flexibility of a feature, the STC model and nature of team science remains essentially invisible to the public through the lens of the media.

Ingram, D. (2014). "Avatar and nature spirituality." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(4): 554-556.
	
Ingram-Waters, M. C. (2009). "Public fiction as knowledge production: the case of the Raelians' cloning claims." Public Understanding of Science 18(3): 292-308.	In this article, I follow the construction of the public fiction of the 2002 Raelians' cloning claims as a site of liminal, or transitional, space for scientific knowledge production. In 2002, the Raelians, a new religious movement, announced the successful birth of Baby Eve, allegedly, the first clone. Baby Eve was quickly denounced as a hoax. Within the media frenzy that led up to and followed Baby Eve's birth, the voices of a core set of pro-cloning scientists emerged as experts in constructing human cloning. These experts used the Raelians' claims to settle several controversies about human cloning: reproductive cloning was unethical while therapeutic cloning was desirable; scientists who advocated reproductive cloning were immoral; and human cloning was too complex to be achieved by anyone working outside mainstream scientific institutions. Though Baby Eve is undoubtedly a fictional construct, she offered the world an important opportunity to engage the science fiction-like implications of human cloning as if they were real.

Inthorn, J. (2018). "Genetic risk information." Journal of Risk Research 21(2): 109-116.	Risk information and communication of health risks play a large role in medicine. With the growing importance of genetics and genomics in medicine, the importance of risk communication will even increase in the future. This paper starts with a discussion on the concept of medical risk information and then focusses on genetic risk information. Three examples of genetic risk information are discussed (carrier testing, susceptibility testing and pharmacogenomics testing) in order to exemplify the broad variety of types of risk information and their specific challenges for medical counselling.

Ionescu, T. B. (2012). "Communicating in Germany about the Fukushima Accident: How Direct Encounter Beat Media Representations." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(2): 260-267.	The Fukushima nuclear accident revived the question of whether current practices of technical communication can fulfill the needs of various audiences during a complex global crisis. In that context, the Institute of Nuclear Technology and Energy Systems in Stuttgart organized a public presentation on the technical aspects of the Fukushima nuclear accident. Its success indicates that direct encounter was preferred to media representations of the accident by Stuttgart's citizens. This event demonstrated that public presentation can provide a successful model for technical communication in situations of global sociotechnical crisis.

Irani, T., et al. (2002). "The importance of being accountable - The relationship between perceptions of accountability knowledge, and attitude toward plant genetic engineering." Science Communication 23(3): 225-242.	Constructs derived from Schlenker's triangle model of accountability were used to explore the relationship between perceptions of the accountability of government, industry, and the regulatory process and survey respondents' knowledge and attitude toward potential applications of plant genetic engineering. Regression analysis indicated that accountability was a better predictor of attitude toward potential applications of plant genetic engineering than respondents' level of knowledge. The results tend support to the argument that perceptions of accountability may play a significant role in consumer reactions to food biotechnology.

Irwin, A. (1999). "Science in public: Communication, culture, and credibility." Public Understanding of Science 8(2): 140-141.
	
Irwin, A. (2001). "Constructing the scientific citizen: science and democracy in the biosciences." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 1-18.	The relationship between science policy and public opinion has become a lively topic in the UK-especially with regard to the BSE crisis and genetically modified foods. A number of governmental publications have recently advocated greater public dialogue and engagement. In this general context, the paper explores the configuration of scientific citizenship and of the scientific citizen within policy and consultation processes. Building upon a detailed examination of one important social experiment-the Public Consultation on Developments in the Biosciences-the social construction of both science and public consultation is considered. With particular attention to the framing of issues for public debate, the constitution of audience and the construction of citizenship, the paper argues the need to move beyond mere sloganizing over science and democracy. The discussion concludes with a presentation of competing technologies of community and an assessment of their significance for the future practice of scientific citizenship.

Irwin, A. (2014). "From deficit to democracy (re-visited)." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 71-76.	Taking as its frame the last twenty years of policy-making and academic discussion regarding public engagement with science (PES), this short article offers a personal evaluation of the balance between failure and achievement, and reflects upon some of the other contributions to the special issue. Put in the most general terms, have we been moving forwards or in circles? The persistence of public engagement efforts and existence of constructive science-social science collaborations are noted. However, the ambiguous character of the institutional embrace of social science and the instrumental role accorded to PES research remain as significant issues. Following a retrospective discussion of the deficit' model of science-public relations, some conclusions are drawn concerning the future needs of both reflective practice and practical reflection.

Isabella, J. (2008). "Future directions in science journalism." Science Communication 29(4): 537-538.
	
Ishiyama, I., et al. (2012). "Public attitudes to the promotion of genomic crop studies in Japan: Correlations between genomic literacy, trust, and favourable attitude." Public Understanding of Science 21(4): 495-512.	This study aimed to assess public attitudes in Japan to the promotion of genomic selection in crop studies and to examine associated factors. We analysed data from a nationwide opinion survey. A total of 4,000 people were selected from the Japanese general population by a stratified two-phase sampling method, and 2,171 people participated by post; this survey asked about the pros and cons of crop-related genomic studies promotion, examined people's scientific literacy in genomics, and investigated factors thought to be related to genomic literacy and attitude. The relationships were examined using logistic regression models stratified by gender. Survey results showed that 50.0% of respondents approved of the promotion of crop-related genomic studies, while 6.7% disapproved. No correlation was found between literacy and attitude towards promotion. Trust in experts, belief in science, an interest in genomic studies and willingness to purchase new products correlated with a positive attitude towards crop-related genomic studies.

Islam, M. A., et al. (2011). "Evaluation of risk communication for rural water supply management: a case study of a coastal area of Bangladesh." Journal of Risk Research 14(10): 1237-1262.	Consumption of safe drinking water is an important public health issue. In this study, we considered the risk communication topic of human health concerns related to unsafe water consumption in rural coastal areas of Bangladesh, where potable water is scarce. Our objective was to investigate the level of knowledge that rural residents had concerning safe water consumption and to evaluate the effects of risk communication on knowledge and behavior changes. We considered four rural villages of southwest coastal areas of Bangladesh as sample. This study was based on the results of a questionnaire survey administered before and after risk communication. The pre- and post-survey were conducted during August 2009 and March 2010, respectively. Data were collected from 120 women aged 18-60 years. Two format presentations, with and without water quality information, were used to convey the risk messages. In the present study, indicator bacterial (Escherichia coli) contamination levels in drinking water sources were considered as water quality information since absence of E. coli is the safety margin for the detection of disease-causing organisms. Analysis of the survey data revealed that risk communication can be vital to changes in water consumption knowledge and behavior. Overall general knowledge scores were almost same in the pre-survey for without-(mean score 3.16) and with-information (mean score 3.10) villages. However, after risk communication, there were detectable increases in the mean scores (mean scores, 3.54 and 3.64, respectively, on a 4 point scale) for both groups. Furthermore, risk communication with water quality information appears to be a more effective method of risk communication. Dissemination of risk messages was also higher in with-information villages. Seventy four percent of the participants from with-information villages reported that they had discussed the risk messages with family members and neighbors, compared to 59% of those from without-information villages. The results of this study revealed that age, education, and distance of water sources influence changes in consumption and maintenance behavior. These findings suggest that, in addition to installation of water supply facilities, there is a need to address the low levels of knowledge about safe water consumption in rural coastal communities of Bangladesh. Location specific water quality information may be more useful to convey health risk messages concerning unsafe drinking water consumption.

Ivakhiv, A. (2010). "Nature's Nation: Improvisation, Democracy, and Ken Burns' National Parks." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(4): 462-468.	In his recurrent examination of what makes Americans oAmerican,o documentary filmmaker Ken Burns has particularly focused on the twin themes of democracy and improvisation. The National Parks: America's Best Idea links the national park ideal with America's odemocratic spirit.o Through an examination of its visual methods, I argue that the oKen Burns gazeo is more consistent with the contemplative and magisterial visuality that shaped the origins of the national park movementa visuality that sees nature as oout thereo and a ofinished productothan it is with the improvisational spirit that both democracy and ecology demand in our time.

Ivakhiv, A. (2010). "From Frames to Resonance Machines: The Neuropolitics of Environmental Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(1): 109-121.	George Lakoff's work in cognitive linguistics has prompted a surge in social scientists' interest in the cognitive and neuropsychological dimensions of political discourse. Bringing cognitive neuroscience into the study of social movements and of environmental communication, however, is not as straightforward as Lakoff's followers suggest. Examining and comparing Lakoff's "neuropolitics'' with those of political theorist William E. Connolly, this article argues that Connolly's writings on evangelical-capitalist and eco-egalitarian "resonance machines'' provide a broader model for thinking about the relations between body, brain, and culture. Environmentalists, it concludes, should pluralize their "frames'' and pay greater attention to the micropolitical and affective effects of their language and practices on the communities within which they act, communicate, and dwell.

Ivanova, A., et al. (2013). "Is There a Medialization of Climate Science? Results From a Survey of German Climate Scientists." Science Communication 35(5): 626-653.	The relation between science and the media has recently been termed a medialization of science. The respective literature argues that interaction of scientists with the media and journalists as well as scientists' adaptation to media criteria has increased. This article analyzes whether German climate scientists are indeed "medialized." The results of a survey among 1,130 scientists suggest that medialization phenomena exist in climate science but that they differ significantly among different subgroups. While media interactions are more common for high-ranking scientists, an adaptation to media criteria is more typical for scientists with less experience.

Jackson, F. (1999). "African-American responses to the Human Genome Project." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 181-191.	Data generated by the Human Genome Project are expected to have a powerful impact on how we view human biodiversity. Given the history of past biomedical and quasi-genetic abuse indicted upon Americans of African descent, it is significant that African-Americans have been at the forefront of calls for a variation-inclusive Human Genome Project database and for full participation in all aspects of the project. As articulated in the 1994 Manifesto on Genomic Studies among African-Americans, historically and demographically representative genomic sampling is directly linked to the potential for social justice and equal access to the project's anticipated value. Now, as the Human Genome Project turns its attention to the collection and evaluation of human sequence variation, it is important to concurrently develop research strategies that foster inclusion and collaboration and produce benefits that are accessible to all who have paid for the project's success.

Jackson, J. K. (2011). "Doomsday Ecology and Empathy for Nature: Women Scientists in "B" Horror Movies." Science Communication 33(4): 533-555.	This article's purpose is to examine representations of women scientists in "B" horror movies. Portrayals of female scientists appearing in these films differ significantly from those in blockbuster films. This is because of three factors: (a) a greater freedom for controversial subject matter in low-budget movies, (b) filmmakers' use of high media attention science and environmental issues to attract an audience, and (c) the influence of Western images that feminize nature and position science as a tool to control both women and nature. The analysis describes three resultant themes in the relationship between filmic women scientists and nature.

Jacob, C. J., et al. (2011). "Government management of two media-facilitated crises involving dioxin contamination of food." Public Understanding of Science 20(2): 261-269.	Incidents become crises through a constant and intense public scrutiny facilitated by the media. Two incidents involving dioxin contamination of food led to crises in Belgium and the Republic of Ireland in 1999 and 2008, respectively. Thought to cause cancer in humans, dioxins reached the food supply in both incidents through the contamination of fat used for animal feed. The food and agricultural industries connected to each incident relied on crisis management activities of federal governments to limit adverse public reaction. Analysis of the management of the two crises by their respective federal governments, and a subsequent review of crisis management literature, led to the development of an effective crisis management model. Such a model, appropriately employed, may insulate industries associated with a crisis against damaged reputations and financial loss.

Jacob, S. and N. Schiffino (2015). "Risk Policies in the United States: Definition and Characteristics Based on a Scoping Review of the Literature." Risk Analysis 35(5): 849-858.	The concept of risk policy is used with increasing frequency by decisionmakers, researchers, and the media. However, there is no precise, generally accepted definition of what is covered by policies in this area. Based on a scoping review of the literature published in key journals in the sector, we have identified the main characteristics of public risk policies drawn up and implemented in the United States. The sample comprised 21 articles published in six multidisciplinary journals between 2000 and 2010.

Jacobson, N. (2007). "Social epistemology - Theory for the "Fourth wave" of knowledge transfer and exchange research." Science Communication 29(1): 116-127.	Knowledge transfer and exchange has become an increasingly important practice in the arena of publicly funded health and social research. Throughout its history, investigators have used a variety of borrowed theories to explore and explain the determinants, processes, and results of knowledge transfer. As the context in which knowledge transfer takes place has changed, so too has the theory used to explore and explain the process. This article reviews the role of theory in knowledge transfer and exchange research and proposes a novel source for potentially useful new theory in the current context: social epistemology.

Jacobson, N., et al. (2004). "Organizational factors that influence university-based researchers' engagement in knowledge transfer activities." Science Communication 25(3): 246-259.	Knowledge transfer has become a priority for universities and other publicly funded research institutions. However researchers working in these settings report certain structural barriers to engaging in knowledge translation activities. This article describes these barriers, situating them in the disjunction between current expectations and the historical tradition of disciplinary authority in academia. The authors review some of the organizational solutions that have been proposed to address this disjunction. This analysis of barriers and solutions suggests that five domains of organizational policy and practice-promotion and tenure, resources and funding, structures, knowledge transfer orientation, and documentation-may be critical to promoting researchers' engagement in knowledge transfer.

Jagiello, R. D. and T. T. Hills (2018). "Bad News Has Wings: Dread Risk Mediates Social Amplification in Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 38(10): 2193-2207.	Social diffusion of information amplifies risk through processes of birth, death, and distortion of message content. Dread risk-involving uncontrollable, fatal, involuntary, and catastrophic outcomes (e.g., terrorist attacks and nuclear accidents)-may be particularly susceptible to amplification because of the psychological biases inherent in dread risk avoidance. To test this, initially balanced information about high or low dread topics was given to a set of individuals who then communicated this information through diffusion chains, each person passing a message to the next. A subset of these chains were also reexposed to the original information. We measured prior knowledge, perceived risk before and after transmission, and, at each link, number of positive and negative statements. Results showed that the more a message was transmitted the more negative statements it contained. This was highest for the high dread topic. Increased perceived risk and production of negative messages was closely related to the amount of negative information that was received, with domain knowledge mitigating this effect. Reexposure to the initial information was ineffectual in reducing bias, demonstrating the enhanced danger of socially transmitted information.

Jahng, M. R. and N. Lee (2018). "When Scientists Tweet for Social Changes: Dialogic Communication and Collective Mobilization Strategies by Flint Water Study Scientists on Twitter." Science Communication 40(1): 89-108.	Guided by the literature in social media and science activism, this exploratory study examined how scientists from Virginia Tech, known as the Flint Water Study team, utilized Twitter to communicate and mobilize the public in response to the contamination of water with lead in Flint, Michigan. Results from the content analysis indicated that the scientists utilized Twitter mainly to provide scientific information to the public and that public education was their main advocacy tactic. This study offers insights into how this particular group of science activists utilized social media for collective actions and suggests future directions for science communication on social media.

Jain, V. K. and R. A. Davidson (2007). "Application of a regional hurricane wind risk forecasting model for wood-frame houses." Risk Analysis 27(1): 45-58.	Hurricane wind risk in a region changes over time due to changes in the number, type, locations, vulnerability, and value of buildings. A model was developed to quantitatively estimate changes over time in hurricane wind risk to wood-frame houses (defined in terms of potential for direct economic loss), and to estimate how different factors, such as building code changes and population growth, contribute to that change. The model, which is implemented in a simulation, produces a probability distribution of direct economic losses for each census tract in the study region at each time step in the specified time horizon. By changing parameter values and rerunning the analysis, the effects of different changes in the built environment on the hurricane risk trends can be estimated and the relative effectiveness of hypothetical mitigation strategies can be evaluated. Using a case study application for wood-frame houses in selected counties in North Carolina from 2000 to 2020, this article demonstrates how the hurricane wind risk forecasting model can be used: (1) to provide insight into the dynamics of regional hurricane wind risk - the total change in risk over time and the relative contribution of different factors to that change, and (2) to support mitigation planning. Insights from the case study include, for example, that the many factors contributing to hurricane wind risk for wood-frame houses interact in a way that is difficult to predict a priori, and that in the case study, the reduction in hurricane losses due to vulnerability changes (e. g., building code changes) is approximately equal to the increase in losses due to building inventory growth. The potential for the model to support risk communication is also discussed.

James, F. A. J. L. (2018). "1986, The Michael Faraday prize and the promotion of science in the nineteenth century." Public Understanding of Science 27(3): 382-388.
	
James, R. (2009). ""The post-antibiotic apocalypse" and the "war on superbugs": catastrophe discourse in microbiology, its rhetorical form and political function Reply." Public Understanding of Science 18(5): 588-590.
	
Jang, S. M. (2014). "Congruency or Incongruency Online? Examining Selective Exposure to Four Controversial Science Issues." Science Communication 36(2): 143-167.	This study examined how citizens select science information online based on their preexisting issue attitudes. Voluntary national samples browsed through an online news magazine featuring divergent viewpoints about four controversial science topics (stem cell, evolution, genetically modified foods, and global warming). Their online activities, including article selection and the length of exposure, were unobtrusively measured by behavior tracking software. Participants tended to choose science information that challenged rather than supported their views concerning stem cell and genetically modified foods. However, those who perceived that they had sufficient science knowledge and were religious exhibited confirmation-bias, preferring congruent to incongruent information.

Jardine, C. G. (2003). "Development of a public participation and communication protocol for establishing fish consumption advisories." Risk Analysis 23(3): 461-471.	Enabling people to make an informed choice on whether to change consumption behavior is ultimately the objective of any fish consumption advisory. This will occur only if people are aware of the advisory, know and understand the advisory information, and believe the information to be true. Interactive, meaningful communication and the opportunity to participate in the process to develop and review advisories are key to achieving these attributes. A case study was undertaken in a community in Alberta, Canada (where an existing advisory was under consideration for review) to determine public awareness, knowledge, compliance, communication effectiveness, information needs, and desire for involvement related to the advisory. The information obtained from this case study was used to develop 14 guiding principles as a foundation for the incorporation of public participation and risk communication into the process of developing and reviewing fish consumption advisories.

Jardine, C. G. and S. E. Hrudey (1997). "Mixed messages in risk communication." Risk Analysis 17(4): 489-498.	The exchange of risk information between risk managers and affected parties is frequently hampered by differences in the understanding or interpretation of many words and phrases. Much of the terminology used by risk practitioners may have different ''technical'' and ''colloquial'' meanings, resulting in ''mixed messages'' in risk communication. Several words and concepts commonly used in risk management that may be resulting in these ''mixed messages'' are discussed. These include primary underlying concepts, such as the various meanings of the word ''risk'' itself, as well as the perplexity of the notions of ''safety vs. zero risk'' and ''probability.'' The potential ''mixed messages'' of the derived concepts of ''significant vs. nonsignificant,'' ''negative VS. positive results,'' ''conservative assumptions,'' ''population vs. individual risk,'' ''relative vs. absolute risk,'' and ''association vs. causation'' are shown to range from mild confusion to the completely opposite interpretation of these words and expressions. Suggested strategies for recognizing and mitigating the use of words and phrases which may create unnecessary confusion are presented.

Jardine, C. G., et al. (2007). "Stakeholder participation in investigating the health impacts from coal-fired power generating stations in Alberta, Canada." Journal of Risk Research 10(5): 693-714.	Developing an effective stakeholder participation process and communication dialogue continues to be a challenge in dealing with risk issues, particularly those in which the risk is uncertain and people are fearful about the potential impacts. The complex public stakeholder relations and risk communication issues associated with investigating the potential human health effects associated with exposure to the emissions of coal-fired power generating stations are discussed. Residents in the area around Lake Wabamun (west of Edmonton, Alberta, Canada) have raised concerns about potential health impacts from four nearby coal-fired power generating stations. The Wabamun and Area Community Exposure and Health Effects Assessment Programme (WACEHEAP) was developed to look specifically at what people are being exposed to in this area as well as some of the health effects from these exposures. Public stakeholders to this process included the general public, community interest groups and the Paul First Nation. Two surveys were conducted to better understand community concerns, communication and information needs, and desire for involvement. Consultations were also held with the Paul First Nation. The results provided important insights into the risk perspectives of these groups, including communication needs and desired means of participating in the risk assessment process.

Jarreau, P. B., et al. (2017). "Best Practices in Environmental Communication: A Case Study of Louisiana's Coastal Crisis." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(2): 143-165.	This mixed-method case study of environmental communication best practices in Louisiana, USA, identifies trends and approaches as informed by environmental psychology. The results provide key insights for environmental communicators, especially communicators in coastal regions. In-depth interviews with both environmental psychologists and environmental communicators showed that both groups emphasized knowing the audience, telling local stories, building relationships with target audiences and targeted messaging. Both psychologists and communicators also frequently mentioned general messaging concerns of source credibility, avoiding controversial terms and talking about issues, impacts and solutions to which the target audience can relate. A representative survey revealed that Louisiana residents are most interested in hearing about how environmental issues such as climate change, coastal land loss and flooding are affecting their own communities. This finding supports the idea that environmental communicators could do a better job tapping into strong place attachment and sense of community among coastal residents to promote action.

Jasanoff, S. (1997). "Civilization and madness: The great BSE scare of 1996." Public Understanding of Science 6(3): 221-232.	During the UK's BSE crisis of 1996, citizens and their public institutions experienced an unprecedented breakdown of communication that I call 'civic dislocation'-a mismatch between what governmental institutions were supposed to do for the public, and what they actually did. Trust in government vanished, and people looked elsewhere for information and advice. In the UK, public confidence in governmental advisers rests on the reliability of persons rather than (primarily) the rationality of their views; in the USA, on the other hand, trust rests in formal processes and styles of reasoning that ensure the transparency and objectivity of governmental decisions. UK policy institutions require. set of conditions-among them a shared, unambiguous problem definition, relative certainty about 'objective facts' and identifiable expert knowledge-which in the BSE case simply did not exist. Given the pervasive uncertainties, the distance between citizens and experts was greatly reduced, and the lay public was almost as well positioned as the experts to make sensible decisions about how to avoid the risk of BSE. This reading of civic dislocation in the UK should make us wary of recent proposals to create pockets of insulated expertise within the US risk management system to neutralize unfounded public fears through rationality, expertise, insulation and authority. A programme that values rationality and efficiency most highly leaves little room or reason for lay inputs; and, by putting too little faith in people and too much in the objectivity of formal analysis, may also carry the seeds of civic dislocation.

Jasanoff, S. (1998). "Coming of age in science and technology studies." Science Communication 20(1): 91-98.	Before science and technology studies can play more important roles in the research agendas for science communication, science and engineering education and science and technology policy, the field must first restore its credibility among scientists, address its internal fragmentation, and reestablish its relevance to public affairs. Accomplishing these goals will require the reassessment of tools and approaches that the field has already developed as well as an open appraisal of where the field has fallen short in the past.

Jasanoff, S. (1998). "The mad cow crisis: Health and the public good." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 354-356.
	
Jasanoff, S. (2014). "A mirror for science." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 21-26.	Early conceptions of the public understanding of science suffered from a narrow framing of what science means and a presumption that science is divided from its publics by walls of ignorance and indifference. Those assumptions amplified misunderstanding and led to faulty policies. It is time to reopen each element in the term public understanding of science to renewed reflection. This journal can advance that goal by encouraging research on actual rather than imagined public responses to science, on representations of science in the public sphere, and on interactions between science, technology and society.

Jaspal, R. and B. Nerlich (2014). "Fracking in the UK press: Threat dynamics in an unfolding debate." Public Understanding of Science 23(3): 348-363.	Shale gas is a novel source of fossil fuel which is extracted by induced hydraulic fracturing, or "fracking". This article examines the socio-political dimension of fracking as manifested in the UK press at three key temporal points in the debate on the practice. Three newspaper corpora were analysed qualitatively using Thematic Analysis and Social Representations Theory. Three overarching themes are discussed: "April-May 2011: From Optimism to Scepticism"; "November 2011: (De-)Constructing and Re-Constructing Risk and Danger"; "April 2012: Consolidating Social Representations of Fracking". In this article, we examine the emergence of and inter-relations between competing social representations, discuss the dynamics of threat positioning and show how threat can be re-construed in order to serve particular socio-political ends in the debate on fracking.

Jaspal, R. and B. Nerlich (2014). "When climate science became climate politics: British media representations of climate change in 1988." Public Understanding of Science 23(2): 122-141.	Climate change has become a pressing environmental concern for scientists, social commentators and politicians. Previous social science research has explored media representations of climate change in various temporal and geographical contexts. Through the lens of Social Representations Theory, this article provides a detailed qualitative thematic analysis of media representations of climate change in the 1988 British broadsheet press, given that this year constitutes an important juncture in this transition of climate change from the domain of science to that of the socio-political sphere. The following themes are outlined: (i) Climate change: a multi-faceted threat; (ii) Collectivisation of threat; (iii) Climate change and the attribution of blame; and (iv) Speculative solutions to a complex socio-environmental problem. The article provides detailed empirical insights into the starting-point for present-day disputes concerning climate change and lays the theoretical foundations for tracking the continuities and discontinuities characterising social representations of climate change in the future.

Jaspal, R., et al. (2014). "Human Responses to Climate Change: Social Representation, Identity and Socio-psychological Action." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(1): 110-130.	Climate change is one of the most important global challenges in the twenty-first century, given that a changing climate is likely to have negative and potentially irreversible consequences for the environment and human beings. Drawing upon Social Representations Theory (SRT) and Identity Process Theory (IPT) from social psychology, we argue that research should focus upon, and successfully integrate, three levels of analysis, namely (1) how climate change knowledge is constructed and circulates (social representation); (2) the role of identity in relation to these representations (identity); and (3) how people might respond to them (action). It is suggested that identity processes may determine how people process social representations of climate change, and that they mediate the link between representations and environmental behavior. Understanding human responses to climate change necessitates an integrative social sciences perspective, in terms of disciplinary, theoretical, and methodological approaches.

Jaspal, R., et al. (2013). "Contesting Science by Appealing to Its Norms: Readers Discuss Climate Science in the Daily Mail." Science Communication 35(3): 383-410.	This study examines the rhetorical aspects of social contestation of climate change in reader comments published in the Daily Mail, subsequent to climategate. The following themes are reported: (1) denigration of climate scientists to contest hegemonic representations, (2) delegitimization of pro-climate change individuals by disassociation from science, and (3) outright denial: rejecting hegemonic social representations of climate change. The study outlines the discursive strategies employed in order to construct social representations of climate change, to contest alternative representations, and to convince others of the validity of these representations. It examines how social representations of science are formed, maintained, and disseminated.

Jaspal, R., et al. (2016). "Embracing and resisting climate identities in the Australian press: Sceptics, scientists and politics." Public Understanding of Science 25(7): 807-824.	This article charts the development of a label that appeared early on in Australian debates on climate change, namely greenhouse sceptics'. We explore who uses the label, for what purposes and with which effects, and how this label may contribute to the development of social representations in the climate debate. Our findings show that over the last 25years, greenhouse sceptic' has been used by journalists and climate scientists to negativize those criticizing mainstream climate science, but that it has also been used, even embraced, by Australian climate sceptics to label themselves in order to construct a positive identity modelled on celebrity sceptics in the United States. We found that the label was grounded in religious metaphors that frame mainstream science as a catastrophist and alarmist religious cult. Overall, this article provides detailed insights into the genealogy of climate scepticism in a particular cultural and historical context.

Jaspers, J. (2014). "From Unwanted to So-Called Expertise: Ideologizing Sociolinguistics in Mainstream Media." Science Communication 36(5): 570-592.	This article discusses how expertise over language is reconfigured in mainstream media. Based on two different cases, it describes how journalists' and sociolinguists' conflicting interests can lead to unwanted attributions of expertise or to the staging of sociolinguists as so-called experts, useful as a foil for redefining what is viewed as more reasonable knowledge over language. Rather than proposing that such altercations illustrate the plight of honest scientists, however, I will argue that they offer the necessary building blocks for developing a better understanding of the transactions between experts and media in late-modernity.

Jauho, M. (2016). "The social construction of competence: Conceptions of science and expertise among proponents of the low-carbohydrate high-fat diet in Finland." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 332-345.	The article looks at conceptions of science and expertise among lay proponents of the low-carbohydrate high-fat diet in Finland. The research data consist of comments on a webpage related to a debate on the health dangers of animal fats screened in Finnish national television in autumn 2010. The article shows that contrary to the prevailing image advocated by the national nutritional establishment, which is based on the deficit model of public understanding of science, the low-carbohydrate high-fat proponents are neither ignorant about scientific facts nor anti-science. Rather, they express nuanced viewpoints about the nature of science, the place of individual experience in nutritional recommendations and the reliability of experts. Inspired by discussions on the social construction of ignorance, the article argues that the low-carbohydrate high-fat proponents are engaged in what it calls the social construction of competence when they present their position as grounded in science and stylize themselves as lay experts.

Jee, B. D., et al. (2015). "Expert-novice differences in mental models of viruses, vaccines, and the causes of infectious disease." Public Understanding of Science 24(2): 241-256.	Humans are exposed to viruses everywhere they live, play, and work. Yet people's beliefs about viruses may be confused or inaccurate, potentially impairing their understanding of scientific information. This study used semi-structured interviews to examine people's beliefs about viruses, vaccines, and the causes of infectious disease. We compared people at different levels of science expertise: middle school students, teachers, and professional virologists. The virologists described more entities involved in microbiological processes, how these entities behaved, and why. Quantitative and qualitative analyses revealed distinctions in the cognitive organization of several concepts, including infection and vaccination. For example, some students and teachers described viral replication in terms of cell division, independent of a host. Interestingly, most students held a mental model for vaccination in which the vaccine directly attacks a virus that is present in the body. Our findings have immediate implications for how to communicate about infectious disease to young people.

Jeffreys, E. (2016). "Translocal celebrity activism: shark-protection campaigns in mainland China." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 763-776.	Shanghai-born Yao Ming, a retired star player with the American National Basketball Association, is the celebrity face of translocal conservation campaigns to stop the consumption of shark-fin soup in Chinese restaurants worldwide. The standard justification for such communication practices is that they will generate media publicity and save shark populations, by encouraging increasingly affluent Chinese consumers to stop eating a luxury food item based on cruel and unsustainable practices. To date, there has been limited research on the nature of shark-protection campaigns in mainland China, the proclaimed major future market for shark fin. This paper fills that gap. It contends that these campaigns have missed their target, being heavily influenced by communication strategies used in international campaigns and providing incoherent local framing. Declining demand for shark fin demonstrates instead that government austerity measures have had a greater impact on luxury consumption practices, inadvertently highlighting the potential of "authoritarian environmentalism."

Jeffreys, E. and J. Xu (2018). "Governing China's Coal Challenge: Changing Public Policy, Debate and Advocacy." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(5): 575-588.	This paper examines the nexus of coal-government-society relations in present-day China using a governmentality approach to explore the interactions between policy change, crisis management and social action. It outlines the noticeable shift in government rationalities and communication regarding the coal industry in recent years. It then frames this shift within the broader context of government-society relations focusing on public debate regarding the calamitous nature of China's air pollution and its filtering via the censorship apparatus of the Communist Party-state. Finally, it shows how problems relating to coal extraction and combustion have been taken up at the level of grass-roots protest and philanthropic advocacy. An examination of such activism illustrates the crucial role played by digital media networks in sparking debate on coal-related environmental and health crises, and in pushing an authoritarian government to change national coal and other policies in order to maintain social and political stability.

Jenkins, E. (2006). "Pedagogy and the practice of science: Historical and contemporary perspectives." Public Understanding of Science 15(4): 498-499.
	
Jensen, E. (2008). "The Dao of human cloning: utopian/dystopian hype in the British press and popular films." Public Understanding of Science 17(2): 123-143.	The issue of human cloning has featured in the national science policy agendas in both the United States and the United Kingdom since the announcement in 1997 of Dolly the cloned sheep's birth in Scotland. Such news stories suggesting the imminent cloning of humans have inspired fictional entertainment media over the years, including numerous popular films. Study 1 examines elite British press coverage of human cloning from 1997 to 2004 (n = 857). Study 2 focuses on five human cloning films released between 1978 and 2003. Two sharply divergent discourses emerged from these data. Unqualified hope and habitually hyped claims of future cures permeated the press discourse. In contrast, the films constructed human cloning as an inherently dangerous technology often wielded by hubristic scientists in the tradition of Frankenstein. Both the predominately positive hype in the broadsheet press and the largely negative hype in the films indicate an impoverished and "thin" public debate on the issue of human cloning.

Jensen, E. (2009). "Human Cloning in the Media: from Science Fiction to Science Practice." Public Understanding of Science 18(3): 373-374.
	
Jensen, E. (2012). "Mediating subpolitics in US and UK science news." Public Understanding of Science 21(1): 68-83.	The development of therapeutic cloning research sparked a scientific controversy pitting patients' hopes for cures against religious and anti-abortion opposition. The present study investigates this controversy by examining the production and content of Anglo-American print media coverage of the branch of embryonic stem cell research known as "therapeutic cloning." Data collection included press articles about therapeutic cloning (n = 5,185) and qualitative interviews with journalists (n = 18). Patient activists and anti-abortion groups emerged as key news sources in this coverage. Significant qualitative differences in the mediation of these subpolitical groups and their arguments for and against therapeutic cloning are identified. Results suggest that the perceived human interest news value of narratives of patient suffering may give patient advocacy groups a privileged position in journalistic coverage. Finally, Ulrich Beck's theoretical arguments about subpolitics are critically applied to the results to elicit further insights.

Jensen, E. and N. Buckley (2014). "Why people attend science festivals: Interests, motivations and self-reported benefits of public engagement with research." Public Understanding of Science 23(5): 557-573.	As a form of public engagement, science festivals have rapidly expanded in size and number over recent years. However, as with other domains of informal public engagement that are not linked to policy outcomes, existing research does not fully address science festivals' impacts and popularity. This study adduces evidence from surveys and focus groups to elucidate the perspectives of visitors at a large UK science festival. Results show that visitors value the opportunities afforded by the science festival to interact with scientific researchers and to encounter different types of science engagement aimed at adults, children and families. The most significant self-reported impact of attending a science festival is the development of increased interest in and curiosity about new areas of scientific knowledge within a socially stimulating and enjoyable setting.

Jensen, J. D. and R. J. Hurley (2012). "Conflicting stories about public scientific controversies: Effects of news convergence and divergence on scientists' credibility." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 689-704.	Surveys suggest that approximately one third of news consumers have encountered conflicting reports of the same information. News coverage of science is especially prone to conflict, but how news consumers perceive this situation is currently unknown. College students (N = 242) participated in a lab experiment where they were exposed to news coverage about one of two scientific controversies in the United States: dioxin in sewage sludge or the reintroduction of gray wolves to populated areas. Participants received (a) one news article (control), (b) two news articles that were consistent (convergent), or (c) two news articles that conflicted (divergent). The effects of divergence induced uncertainty differed by news story. Greater uncertainty was associated with increased scientists' credibility ratings for those reading dioxin regulation articles and decreased scientists' credibility ratings for those reading wolf reintroduction articles. Unlike other manifestations of uncertainty in scientific discourse, conflicting stories seem to generate effects that vary significantly by topic. Consistent with uncertainty management theory, uncertainty is embraced or rejected by situation.

Jensen, P. (2011). "A statistical picture of popularization activities and their evolutions in France." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 26-36.	This paper provides a detailed statistical picture of French scientists involved in public outreach. This is achieved by analysing the popularization practices of 7000 scientists in all major disciplines over a six-year period (2004 to 2009). I analyse the influence of discipline, position, age and academic productivity. Thanks to a temporal analysis, I show that scientists can be split into three distinct populations with radically different popularization practices. Finally, this analysis suggests that the recent increase in public engagement is the result of heightened social interest which pulls more outreach from particular disciplines.

Jensen, R. E. (2007). "Using science to argue for sexual education in US public schools - Dr. Ella Flagg Young and the 1913 "Chicago Experiment"." Science Communication 29(2): 217-241.	During the Progressive Era, Dr. Ella Flagg Young instituted the first sexual education program in U.S. public schools. She garnered support for her "Chicago Experiment" by integrating scientific appeals about sexual education into popular discourses on modern research methods, education, and physical health. Although Young lived in an era when respect for science was at an all-time high, she created arguments for public sexual education that balanced scientific information about sex with audiences' ideological/moral concerns. This rhetorical history builds from critical rhetorical theory to offer implications for contemporary health advocates attempting to steer sexual education policy in new directions.

Jensen, R. E. and A. N. Blumling (2018). "Justifying an ideal first pregnancy age: Vernacular science knowledge and the facilitation of lay argument." Public Understanding of Science 27(3): 325-337.	Members of the lay public often draw from vernacular science knowledgeor metaphors, images, and terms related to technical scienceto make normative assessments about behavior. Yet, little is known about vernacular science knowledge in terms of its forms and functions. In a national survey, US adults (N=688) were asked to identify an ideal age for first pregnancy, and to explain their decision. Participants drew from arguments related to hormonal processes, the language of risk, and the quality and quantity of eggs to navigate and identify an ideal timeline for first pregnancy. Their responses illustrated patterns of justification that involved the (a) employment of scientific concepts as heuristic cues for critical analysis, (b) conflation of details, and (c) synecdochal explication. These findings reveal some of the key ways in which vernacular science knowledge may shape the trajectory of lay argument in a range of contexts.

Jepsen, K. S. and T. M. Bertilsson (2017). "Wired to freedom: Life science, public politics, and the case of Cochlear Implantation." Public Understanding of Science 26(2): 164-178.	Cochlear Implantation is now regarded as the most successful medical technology. It carries promises to provide deaf/hearing impaired individuals with a technological sense of hearing and an access to participate on a more equal level in social life. In this article, we explore the adoption of cochlear implantations among Danish users in order to shed more light on their social and political implications. We situate cochlear implantation in a framework of new life science advances, politics, and user experiences. Analytically, we draw upon the notion of social imaginary and explore the social dimension of life science through a notion of public politics adopted from the political theory of John Dewey. We show how cochlear implantation engages different social imaginaries on the collective and individual levels and we suggest that users share an imaginary of being "wired to freedom" that involves new access to social life, continuous communicative challenges, common practices, and experiences. In looking at their lives as "wired to freedom," we hope to promote a wider spectrum of civic participation in the benefit of future life science developments within and beyond the field of Cochlear Implantation. As our empirical observations are largely based in the Scandinavian countries (notably Denmark), we also provide some reflections on the character of the technology-friendly Scandinavian welfare states and the unintended consequences that may follow in the wake of rapid technology implementation of life science in society.

Jia, H. P. (2017). "Constructing culture of science: Communication of science in India and China." Public Understanding of Science 26(5): 632-632.
	
Jia, H. P. and L. Liu (2014). "Unbalanced progress: The hard road from science popularisation to public engagement with science in China." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 32-37.	This article critically traces the development of science communication in China in the past 30 years. While confirming the tremendous progress Chinese science communicators have achieved in popularising science, it argues that the deficit model-based popularisation effort cannot meet the diversifying demands on science in Chinese society. Citing both recent science and technology controversies and active public participation in science pilot initiatives in China, this article concludes that science communication efforts in the country must be focused on constructive dialogues and public engagement with science.

Jia, H. P., et al. (2017). "Encountered but Not Engaged: Examining the Use of Social Media for Science Communication by Chinese Scientists." Science Communication 39(5): 646-672.	Thus far, few studies have examined how scientists choose different social media platforms, or how using multiple platforms of social media is related to public engagement with science. This article investigates the role of social media in China's science communication and scientists' selective use of them. We found that social media enabled Chinese scientists to avoid relying on legacy media and to develop more interdisciplinary collaborations. In the process, these scientists strategically chose different social media platforms to increase controllability. Despite their preference for the approach of knowledge dissemination rather than dialogues, Chinese scientists tried to avoid the bureaucratic practice of science communication, and instead, they promoted some level of public participation.

Joffe, H. (2011). "Public apprehension of emerging infectious diseases: are changes afoot?" Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 446-460.	Using social representations theory this paper casts light on the pattern of content that characterises the public response to emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases (EID). The pattern is: distancing the disease from the self/one's in-groups; blame of particular entities for the disease's origin and/or spread; and stigmatisation of those who have contracted it and/or who are represented as having intensified its spread. This pattern is not unique to EID but extends to many risks, making EID fruitful events for understanding public apprehension of potential dangers. This process may be driven by worry, fear and anxiety since when levels of these are low, as has arguably been the case with the 2009/10 "Swine Flu" pandemic, the pattern transforms. The distancing-blame-stigma pattern may also be transformed by growing reflexivity, a feature of late modern societies, as well as material features of the epidemic and "EID fatigue.".

Johnson, B. B. (1993). "Coping with Paradoxes of Risk Communication - Observations and Suggestions." Risk Analysis 13(3): 241-243.
	
Johnson, B. B. (1993). "The Mental Model Meets the Planning Process - Wrestling with Risk Communication-Research and Practice." Risk Analysis 13(1): 5-8.
	
Johnson, B. B. (1999). "Ethical issues in risk communication: Continuing the discussion." Risk Analysis 19(3): 335-348.	Proposed in this article is one possible framework for classifying multiple types of ethical issues in risk communication research and practice to help continue a discussion initiated in 1990 by Morgan and Lave. Some of the questions that each stage of the process for planning risk communication strategies appears to pose for ethics are discussed (e.g., selecting issues to be communicated, knowing the issue, dealing with constraints). Also discussed briefly are some issues raised by the possibility that risk communicators aspire to the status of a profession. The purpose is to foster discussion rather than issue a conclusive statement on the topic, because its very nature makes a definitive pronouncement indefensible.

Johnson, B. B. (2002). "Gender and race in beliefs about outdoor air pollution." Risk Analysis 22(4): 725-738.	Universal need for, or reactions to, risk communications should not be assumed; potential differences across demographic groups in environmental risk beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors could affect risk levels or opportunities for risk reduction. Ibis article reports relevant findings from a survey experiment involving 1,100 potential jurors in Philadelphia concerning public responses to outdoor air pollution and air quality information. Flynn et al. (1994) and Finucane et al. (2000) found significant differences in risk ratings for multiple hazards, and in generic risk beliefs, between white men (or a subset) and all others (white women, nonwhite men, and nonwhite women). Ibis study examined whether white men had significantly different responses to air pollution and air pollution information. An opportunity sample of volunteers from those awaiting potential jury duty in city courts (matching census estimates for white versus nonwhite proportions, but more female than the city's adult population and more likely to have children) filled out questionnaires distributed quasi-randomly. On most measures there were no statistically significant differences among white men (N = 192), white women (N = 269), nonwhite men (N = 165), and nonwhite women (N = 272). Nonwhites overall (particularly women) reported more concern about and sensitivity to air pollution than whites, and were more concerned by (even overly sensitive to) air pollution information provided as part of the experiment. Nonwhites also were more likely (within-gender comparisons) to report being active outdoors for at least four hours a day, a measure of potential exposure to air pollution, and to report intentions to reduce such outdoor activity after reading air pollution information. Differences between men and women were less frequent than between whites and nonwhites; the most distinctive group was nonwhite women, followed by white men. Flynn et al. (1994) and Finucane et al. (2000) found a far larger proportion of significant differences, with white men as most distinctive, probably due to use of different measures, study design, and population samples. However, all three studies broadly confirm the existence of gender and race interactions in risk beliefs and attitudes (particularly for white men and nonwhite women) that deserve more attention from researchers.

Johnson, B. B. (2002). "Stability and inoculation of risk comparisons' effects under conflict: Replicating and extending the "asbestos jury" study by Slovic et al." Risk Analysis 22(4): 777-788.	Promotion or criticism of risk comparisons in risk communication has far exceeded empirical tests of their effects. Slovic et al. (1990) experimented with a hypothetical jury trial in which an asbestos-installing firm was accused of subjecting school occupants to unreasonable risk. A risk comparison sharply reduced subjects' estimates of risk and judgments that the firm was guilty, but a critique of the risk comparison had risk estimates and guilt judgments rebounding to the original (without risk comparison) level. Slovic et al. concluded that risk comparisons' effects were highly unstable, at least in conflict-ridden situations such as a jury trial. The present study replicates and extends this important study, using the same stimuli and questions. The respective effects of the risk comparison and the critique recurred, although much less sharply than in Slovic et al. Moreover, judgments of guilt, risk, and other aspects of the case seemed shaped more by demographics and beliefs about risk generically (e.g., about the likelihood of cancer after exposure to a carcinogen) than by either risk comparison or critique. A variant design, in which the defense's expert witness dismissed potential criticisms of the risk comparison, appeared to "inoculate" people against shifting their views after seeing the critique. Overall, these results show that risk comparisons might change some beliefs about risks in conflict and that "inoculation" can reduce vulnerability to criticism. However, the results also show strong limits on effects of both comparisons and their critiques: they shifted only a minority of judgments and had small effects relative to people's social locations and prior risk beliefs.

Johnson, B. B. (2002). "Risk communication: A mental models approach." Risk Analysis 22(4): 813-814.
	
Johnson, B. B. (2003). "Do reports on drinking water quality affect customers' concerns? Experiments in report content." Risk Analysis 23(5): 985-998.	The Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996 required U.S. utilities to report on drinking water quality to their customers annually, beginning in fall 1999, on the assumption that such reports would alert them to quality problems and perhaps mobilize pressure for improvement. A random sample of New Jersey customers read alternative versions of a water quality report, in an experiment on reactions to water quality information under U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) rules. Experiment design was 2 x 3 + 1: two versions each-one with, one without, a violation of a health standard-of a report that was (1) Qualitative (without water quality numbers, thus not meeting USEPA rules); (2) Basic, with minimal information meeting the rules; or (3) Extended, adding reading aids and utility performance information; plus a control instrument without any hypothetical report. Results of ANOVA suggest the reports will have less effect than hoped or feared. These manipulations were successful: people reading the Qualitative versions were less likely to say that the report gave the amounts of substances found in the water, and those reading Violation versions were more likely to report a violation of a health standard. The main differences in responses to the report involved the judged adequacy of the information, and to a lesser extent responses on a Concern scale (constructed from measures of concern, judged risk, clean-up intentions, distrust of utility information, and doubt that the utility was doing all it could to improve water quality). Overall judgments of water quality and utility performance did not change, either relative to the controls or in before versus after responses. Qualitative reports performed worse than others, confirming the decision to have utilities report actual contaminant levels. Extended reports did only slightly better than the Basic versions on these measures. Many respondents had trouble identifying the presence or absence of substance amounts or violations, despite their seeming obviousness (e.g., in a "bottom line" summary on the front page of each report), suggesting many were not processing this information carefully. However, the pattern of responses for those who accurately identified the presence or absence of substance amounts or violations did not differ substantially from that for the group as a whole. Generic risk beliefs (serious local environmental problems; lack of control over risks to one's health) dominated demographic variables, attitudes toward utility water quality or trustworthiness, and the content and format of water quality reports in influencing concern about drinking water quality. Previous empirical and theoretical evidence for lack of change in public risk attitudes due to one-time or infrequent communications-e.g., role of personal experience, perseverance of prior trust or distrust-seems to be confirmed for annual water quality reports.

Johnson, B. B. (2003). "Further notes on public response to uncertainty in risks and science." Risk Analysis 23(4): 781-789.	Given the prevalence of uncertainty and variability in estimates of environmental health risks, it is important to know how citizens interpret information representing uncertainty in risk estimates. Ranges of risk estimates from a hypothetical industry source elicited divergent evaluations of risk assessors' honesty and competence among New Jersey residents within one mile of one or more factories. A plurality saw ranges of risk estimates as both honest and competent, but with most judging such ranges as deficient on one or both dimensions. They wanted definitive conclusions about safety, tended to believe the high end of the range was more likely to be an accurate estimate of the risk, and believed that institutions only discuss risks when they are "high." Acknowledgment of scientific, as opposed to self-interested, reasons for uncertainty and disputes among experts was low. Attitude toward local industry seemed associated with, if not a cause of, attitudes about ranges of risk estimates. These reactions by industry neighbors appear to replicate the findings of Johnson and Slovic (1995, 1998), despite the hypothetical producer of risk estimates being industry instead of government. Respondents were older and less educated on average than were the earlier samples, but more diverse. Regression analyses suggested attitude toward industry was a major factor in these reactions, although other explanations (e.g., level of scientific understanding independent of general education) were not tested in this study.

Johnson, B. B. (2003). "Are some risk comparisons more effective under conflict?: A replication and extension of Roth et al." Risk Analysis 23(4): 767-780.	Despite many claims for and against the use of risk comparisons in risk communication, few empirical studies have explored their effect. Only one study, published by Roth et al. in this journal in 1990, has tested the 1988 predictions by Covello et al. as to the public's relative preferences for 14 kinds of risk comparisons as they might be used by a factory manager to explain risks of his ethylene oxide plant. That study found no correlations between the Covello predictions and seven different measures of "acceptability" of Covello's examples of each type of comparison. However, two critics of the Roth study, as well as its own authors, suggested that a scenario involving local risks, a conflict-ridden situation, and a plant manager unknown to the townspeople might better evoke Covello-like preferences than the distant, calm, friends-involving scenario used by Roth. The research reported here replicated the Roth study using the same scenario, risk comparison examples, and evaluation measures, and added a second scenario intended to replicate the conditions suggested by critics. Over 200 New Jersey residents answered the study questionnaire. The replication scenario reproduced Roth's results, and the conflict scenario also evoked no rankings correlated with Covello's predictions. Furthermore, neither agreement nor disagreement with five statements representing "conflict "-respondents' reports that the industrial-plant scenario made them angry, they lived near industry, they were concerned about industrial risks, people in their home town were angry about industrial pollution, and they worried "frequently" about long-term effects of pollution-correlated with Covello's predictions. Over half of all ratings ascribed to the comparisons in aggregate were positive, and most detailed comments offered by respondents also were positive, despite many criticisms and suggestions for their improvement. The wide variability in individuals' rankings also undermines the notion of any single ranking of preferred comparisons. These findings have implications for use of risk comparisons, but also reveal the inaccuracy of the field's assumptions about public reaction to industrial risk information, including risk comparison.

Johnson, B. B. (2003). "Communicating air quality information: Experimental evaluation of alternative formats." Risk Analysis 23(1): 91-103.	A long-running effort in environmental communication is daily publication of a report on local air pollution in many American newspapers based on the Pollutant Standards Index (PSI). A 1998 proposal by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) to change the PSI prompted a survey experiment with 1,100 adults in Philadelphia, evaluating the proposed change's ability to better inform the populace. The effects of exposure to the old and new versions of the PSI, as well as health cautions and information about groups sensitive to air pollution, were compared with evaluation criteria suggested by Weinstein and Sandman (1993). Sample respondents had strong baseline concerns about air pollution. Descriptors of air quality (e.g., "good; " "unhealthy") were difficult to discriminate, particularly in the New format. Concern rose as hypothetical air pollution levels rose, but the New format (as well as PSI versions without health cautions or sensitive-group information) evoked a sharp discontinuity in concern between below- and above-standard pollution levels. Both Old and New formats reduced concern relative to no provision of PSI information at all, but the New format reduced concern significantly more than the Old version. No PSI format did particularly well at increasing knowledge of air pollution or decreasing intentions to be active outdoors during high pollution, contrary to the agency's aim. Although U.S. EPA has since adopted the new proposal as a national "Air Quality Index" requirement, the experiment's results illuminate the strengths and limitations of the new PSI as a means of informing citizens and motivating them to protect themselves.

Johnson, B. B. (2004). "Varying risk comparison elements: Effects on public reactions." Risk Analysis 24(1): 103-114.	Expanding a limited empirical base on effects of risk comparisons, a pilot experiment explored how varying elements of such comparisons might influence public response. The scenario used was a hypothetical trial of an asbestos-installing firm for putting students and staff at a junior high school at "unreasonable risk," first used by Slovic et al. (1990). Study participants played the role of jurors in the trial, asked to rate the risk, the firm's guilt, whether it should be made liable for future health effects, whether the school should be occupied in its current condition, and whether the asbestos should be removed at a cost of $3 million. Opportunity samples of New Jersey residents (n = 309) received information intended to vary four comparison attributes: number of dimensions of comparison; single versus multiple ways of expressing mortality; a narrative to explain and justify the risk comparison; and the hypothetical role of the participant (juror vs. parent). The dependent variable was a hazard scale constructed from four of the five postcomparison judgments. ANOVA found format variations swamped in their effect by concern about asbestos, with the absence of a narrative and the parental role being the only attributes that increased negative risk reactions. Multiple regression analyses found that multidimensionality, narrative, role, and the presence of any risk comparison at all had significant effects when these (plus death formats) were the only independent variables. However, only multidimensionality (which increased negative reactions) retained significance when asbestos concern, risk beliefs (no safe level of exposure to a carcinogen; any exposure leads to cancer), and demographic variables were added to the analysis. Concern and risk beliefs alone explained 33% of variance in hazard scores; adding demographics and risk comparison variables only raised explained variance to 36% (having children at home and being exposed to multidimensional risk comparisons raised scores; age and income lowered them). The results underline the potentially small effect of risk comparison information on risk views (at least between subjects), but offer some insight into aspects of message design left unexplored in empirical literature to date.

Johnson, B. B. (2004). "Risk comparisons, conflict, and risk acceptability claims." Risk Analysis 24(1): 131-145.	Despite many claims for and against the use of risk comparisons in risk communication, few empirical studies have explored their effect. Even fewer have examined the public's relative preferences among different kinds of risk comparisons. Two studies, published in this journal in 1990 and 2003, used seven measures of "acceptability" to examine public reaction to 14 examples of risk comparisons, as used by a hypothetical factory manager to explain risks of his ethylene oxide plant. This study examined the effect on preferences of scenarios involving low or high conflict between the factory manager and residents of the hypothetical town (as had the 2003 study), and inclusion of a claim that the comparison demonstrated the risks' acceptability. It also tested the Finucane et al. (2000) affect hypothesis that information emphasizing low risks-as in these risk comparisons-would raise benefits estimates without changing risk estimates. Using similar but revised scenarios, risk comparison examples (10 instead of 14), and evaluation measures, an opportunity sample of 303 New Jersey residents rated the comparisons, and the risks and benefits of the factory. On average, all comparisons received positive ratings on all evaluation measures in all conditions. Direct and indirect measures showed that the conflict manipulation worked; overall, No-Conflict and Conflict scenarios evoked scores that were not significantly different. The attachment to each risk comparison of a risk acceptability claim ("So our factory's risks should be acceptable to you.") did not worsen ratings relative to conditions lacking this claim. Readers who did or did not see this claim were equally likely to infer an attempt to persuade them to accept the risk from the comparison. As in the 2003 article, there was great individual variability in inferred rankings of the risk comparisons. However, exposure to the risk comparisons did not reduce risk estimates significantly (while raising benefit estimates), and Conflict-Claim respondents found the risk of the hypothetical factory less acceptable than No-Conflict respondents. Results suggest that neither risk comparisons nor risk acceptability claims are automatically anathema to audiences, but they may have tiny or unintended effects on audience judgments about risky situations.

Johnson, B. B. (2005). "Testing and expanding a model of cognitive processing of risk information." Risk Analysis 25(3): 631-650.	Scholars have begun to explore the role of modes of information processing and related audience characteristics in reactions to risky situations and risk information.((11,12 ,14 ,17,18,20))"Information processing" concerns how people attend to and consider available information: systematic processors analyze messages and situations carefully, while heuristic processors skim and use cues (e.g., opinions of trusted reference groups) for quick judgments. This article uses scenarios about a semi-hypothetical industrial facility, in particular risk comparisons being considered by its manager for inclusion in a talk to the community, to explore the impact of information processing. Information insufficiency, self-assessed capacity to understand information, and information-seeking propensities are tested for potential effects on information processing about industrial risks by people living near industry. As well as testing established models, this article explores the additional explanatory value of involvement, relevance, and ability (Earle et al., 1990) and objective knowledge. Both existing model variables and new ones have significant effects on information seeking and information processing in this case, and partly confirm earlier results. Trumbo((17,18)) found that heuristic processors saw lower risk and systematic processors higher risk from suspected cancer clusters. In this study, reporting knowledge about local industrial risks as insufficient for one's purposes and self-reported avoidance of such information both raised ratings of the facility's risk and lowered ratings of its acceptability. Neither type of information processing significantly affected risk or acceptability judgments, but both increased risk ratings and heuristic processing had more effect than systematic processing. Positive ratings of risk comparisons' clarity and meaningfulness decreased risk and increased acceptability ratings, dominated other information variables in predictive power, and exceeded risk, benefit, and trust in contribution to acceptability judgments. Despite differences across studies in designs and variables, and the embryonic development of appropriate (self-reported) measures for use in field surveys, these results confirm the potential value of further research in how information seeking and processing affect risk beliefs and reactions to risk communications.

Johnson, B. B. (2008). "Public Views on Drinking Water Standards as Risk Indicators." Risk Analysis 28(6): 1515-1530.	Government agencies often compare contaminant levels to standards and other regulatory benchmarks to convey relative risk to public audiences, as well as for enforcement. Yet we know little of how citizens interpret these risk indicators or factors influencing interpretations. Owners of private residential wells in New Jersey were surveyed by mail. A majority appreciated this comparison, trusted the standard, and could effectively compare the contaminant level to the standard. Most people who recalled that their own well water quality was unsatisfactory simply installed treatment systems. However, there was also a surprising amount of inability to tell whether pollution levels were better or worse than the standard, perhaps exacerbated by confusing institutional language to summarize the comparison (e.g., pollution "exceeds" or is "less than" the standard) and innumeracy. There was also substantial skepticism about the degree to which pollution levels below, or (to a lesser extent) above, the standard are harmless or harmful, respectively. Skepticism was variously due to distrust of standards, disbelief in thresholds for health effects, inability to accurately compare standards and contaminant levels, information processing, and demographics. Discontinuity in reactions below versus above the standard did not exist in the aggregate, and rarely among individuals, contrary to some previous findings. At identical standards and contaminant levels, familiar toxins (mercury, arsenic, lead) elicited higher risk ratings than less familiar ones. Given the wide institutional use of this risk indicator, further research on how to improve the design and use of this indicator, and consideration of alternatives, is warranted.

Johnson, B. B. (2011). "Acculturation, Ethnicity, and Air Pollution Perceptions." Risk Analysis 31(6): 984-999.	A globalizing world increases immigration between nations, raising the question of how acculturation (or its lack) of immigrants and their descendants to host societies affects risk perceptions. A survey of Paterson, New Jersey, residents tested acculturation's associations with attitudes to air pollution and its management, and knowledge of and self-reported behaviors concerning air pollution. Linguistic and temporal proxy measures for acculturation were independent variables along with ethnicity, plus controls for gender, age, education, and income in multivariate analyses. About one-fifth of contrasts between non-Hispanic whites, non-Hispanic blacks, English-interviewed Hispanics, and Spanish-interviewed Hispanics were statistically significant (Bonferroni-corrected) and of medium or higher affect size, with most featuring the Spanish-interviewed Hispanics. Knowledge variables featured the most significant differences. Specifically, Spanish-interviewed Hispanics reported less concern, familiarity with pollution, recognition of high pollution, and vigorous outdoor activity, and greater belief that government overregulates pollution than English-interviewed Hispanics (and than the other two groups on most of these variables too). English-interviewed Hispanics did not differ from non-Hispanic whites, but did on several variables from non-Hispanic blacks. Temporal proxies of acculturation among the foreign-born were far less significant, but concern and familiarity with air pollution increased with time spent in the United States, while belief in overregulation and a positive trend in New Jersey pollution increased with time in the nation of origin. Implications of these acculturation and ethnicity findings for risk perception/communication research and practice are discussed.

Johnson, B. B. (2012). "Climate Change Communication: A Provocative Inquiry into Motives, Meanings, and Means." Risk Analysis 32(6): 973-991.	The deliberately provocative theme of this article is that perceived difficulties in climate change communication (CCC)e.g., indifference about or denial of climate change's reality, negative consequences, anthropogenic causes, or need to mitigate or adapt to itare partly the fault of climate change communicators. Fischhoff's model of risk communication development is used to demonstrate that CCC to date has tended to stress persuasion, rather than social movement mobilization or deliberation, and with a focus on the model's early stages. Later stages are not necessarily better, but a more diverse strategy seems superior to a focus perhaps narrowed by empathic, ideological, psychological, and resource constraints. Furthermore, even within persuasion, emphasizing a wider set of values, consequences, and audiences could be fruitful. Social movement mobilization has its own set of weaknesses, but usefully complements persuasion with a focus on developing power, subverting mainstream assumptions, and engaging people in collective action. Deliberation similarly has its drawbacks, but unlike the other two approaches does not define the solutionor even, necessarily, the problemin advance, and thus offers the chance for people of contending viewpoints to jointly develop concepts and action agendas hitherto unimagined. Simultaneous pursuit of all three strategies can to some degree offset their respective flaws, at the potential cost of diffusion of energies and contradictory messages. Success in CCC is by no means guaranteed by a more diverse set of strategies and self-reflection by communicators, but their pursuit should better reveal CCC's limits.

Johnson, B. B. (2012). "Experience with Urban Air Pollution in Paterson, New Jersey and Implications for Air Pollution Communication." Risk Analysis 32(1): 39-53.	Communication about air pollution can help reduce health risks, but a scattered, largely qualitative literature on air pollution beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors raises questions about its effectiveness. A telephone survey of Paterson, New Jersey (USA) residents tested four hypotheses aimed toward integrating these findings. Self-reported sheltering indoors during high pollution, the recommended strategy, was predicted by perceived air quality and self-reported sensitivity to air pollution. Nearly a quarter of the sample reported mandatory outdoor activity (e.g., work) that might increase their exposures, but this factor did not significantly affect self-reported sheltering. Perceptions of air quality did not correlate strongly with official monitoring data (U.S. Air Quality Index (AQI)); even people who regularly sought AQI data relied upon sensory cues to high pollution, and secondarily upon health cues. Use of sensory and health cues, definitions of what makes someone sensitive to air pollution, and (less strongly) definitions of vulnerability to air pollution varied widely. The minority aware of the AQI were more likely to seek it if they had illnesses or saw themselves in the targeted AQI audience, yet less likely if they believed themselves sensitive to pollution. However, their sense of the AQI's match to their own experience was driven by whether they used sensory (yes) or health (no) cues, not by illness status. Some urban residents might not have access to AQI data, but this barrier seems outweighed by need to bridge interpretive gaps over definitions of air pollution, sensory perception, vulnerability, and health consequences.

Johnson, B. B. (2017). "Explaining Americans' responses to dread epidemics: an illustration with Ebola in late 2014." Journal of Risk Research 20(10): 1338-1357.	Despite several surveys of Americans' responses to Ebola as people were treated or died in the US in the late fall of 2014, little was published on factors that might affect these responses, despite their value for informing future management and communication regarding outbreaks of novel infectious diseases. This explanatory aim was the goal of a national quota online sample of Americans (n=815) who reported their beliefs and attitudes about Ebola in early December, three weeks after the second US death. Responses were shaped particularly by risk judgments and concern, but also by available Ebola information (from news attention or residence in a state with Ebola experience), political cues (partisanship, ideology), and demographics. Judgments of personal risk and US/global risk were shaped by largely different factors; for example, knowledge of Ebola exposure routes exhibited negative and positive signs, respectively. News attention was associated with both positive (e.g. trust in US Centers for Disease Control & Prevention [CDC]; knowledge) and negative (e.g. US/global risk perception; concern about a US outbreak and family member infection) reactions. Findings suggest challenges for future health communication.

Johnson, B. B. (2018). ""Counting votes" in public responses to scientific disputes." Public Understanding of Science 27(5): 594-610.	Publicized disputes between groups of scientists may force lay choices about groups' credibility. One possible, little studied, credibility cue is vote-counting (proportions of scientists on either side): for example, 97% of climate scientists believe in anthropogenic climate change. An online sample of 2600 Americans read a mock article about a scientific dispute, in a 13 (proportions: 100%-0%, 99%-1%, ... 50%-50%, ... 1%-99%, 0%-100% for Positions A and B, respectively)x8 (scenarios: for example, dietary salt, dark matter) between-person experiment. Respondents reported reactions to the dispute, attitudes toward the topic, and views on science. Proportional information indirectly affected judged agreement but less so topic or science responses, controlling for scenarios and moderators, whether by actual proportions or differing contrasts of consensus versus near-consensus. Given little empirical research with conflicting findings, even these low effect sizes warrant further research on how vote-counting might help laypeople deal with scientific disputes.

Johnson, B. B. (2018). "Residential Location and Psychological Distance in Americans' Risk Views and Behavioral Intentions Regarding Zika Virus." Risk Analysis 38(12): 2561-2579.	Two 2017 experiments with a U.S. national opportunity sample tested effects of location, psychological distance (PD), and exposure to location-related information on Americans' Zika risk views and behavioral intentions. Location-distance from mosquito transmission of the virus in Florida and Texas; residence within states with 100+ Zika infections; residence within potential mosquito vector ranges-had small, inconsistent effects. Hazard proximity weakly enhanced personal risk judgments and concern about Zika transmission locally. It also increased psychological proximity, and intentions of mosquito control, avoiding travel to Zika-infected areas, and practicing safe sex. PD-particularly social and geographical distance, followed by temporal distance, with few effects for uncertainty-modestly and inconsistently decreased risk views and intentions. Exposure to location-related information from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website-naming states with 100+ Zika cases; maps of potential mosquito vector habitat-increased risk views and psychological closeness, but not intentions; maps had slightly stronger if inconsistent effects versus prevalence information. Structural equation modeling (SEM) of a location > PD > risk views > intention path explained modest variance in intentions. This varied in degree and kind (e.g., which location measures were significant) across behaviors, and between pre- and postinformation exposure analyses. These results suggest need for both theoretical and measurement advances regarding effects of location and PD on risk views and behavior. PD mediates location effects on risk views. Online background information, like that used here, will not enhance protective behavior without explicitly focused communication and perhaps higher objective risk.

Johnson, B. B. and C. Chess (2003). "How reassuring are risk comparisons to pollution standards and emission limits?" Risk Analysis 23(5): 999-1007.	Pollutant emissions or ambient levels are often justified by reference to a higher benchmark, such as a public health standard or permit limit. However, does this risk comparison persuade the public audiences to whom it is frequently directed that such pollution levels are "acceptable"? A substantial proportion of people living within one mile of New Jersey's industrial facilities, perhaps as much as half, is indeed reassured by a comparison to such benchmarks. Positive attitudes toward discharge limits were linked to speaking English at home; positive attitudes toward drinking water standards were associated with seeing local benefits of industry as outweighing its risks, not speaking English, and relative youth (49 years old or less). Three scenarios involving drinking water contamination varied pre- and post-treatment levels of the pollutant, though all post-treatment levels were below the standard. In all cases great concern was expressed, with no significant differences across scenarios; net benefits, being white, and non-English speaking were linked to lower concern. Relative trust seems a better explanation of different attitudes toward benchmark comparisons than varying levels of knowledge, but both hypotheses have drawbacks that merit further testing. These results imply that people with negative views of industry or government, the ones officials might most wish to reassure, will tend to doubt that regulatory benchmarks offer a valid risk comparison.

Johnson, B. B. and C. Chess (2003). "Communicating worst-case scenarios: Neighbors' views of industrial accident management." Risk Analysis 23(4): 829-840.	The prospect of industrial accidents motivated the U.S. Congress to require in the Clean Air Act of 1990 that manufacturing facilities develop Risk Management Plans (RMP) to submit to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) by July 1999. Industry worried that the requirement to communicate to the public a "worst-case scenario" would arouse unnecessary and counterproductive fears among industry neighbors. We report here the results of focus groups and surveys with such neighbors, focusing particularly upon their reactions to messages about a hypothetical worst-case scenario and management of these risks by industry, government, and other parties. Our findings confirmed our hypotheses that citizens would be skeptical of the competence and trustworthiness of these managers and that this stance would color their views of industrial-facility accident risks. People with job ties to industry or who saw industrial benefits to the community as exceeding its risks had more positive views of industrial risks, but still expressed great concern about the risk and doubt about accident management. Notwithstanding these reactions, overall respondents welcomed this and other related information, which they wanted their local industries to supply. Respondents were not more reassured by additional text describing management of accidents by government and industry. However, respondents did react very positively to the concept of community oversight to review plant safety. Claims about the firm's moral obligation or financial self interest in preventing accidents were also received positively. Further research on innovative communication and management of accident risks is warranted by these results, even before recent terrorist attacks made this topic more salient.

Johnson, B. B. and C. Chess (2006). "Evaluating public responses to environmental trend indicators." Science Communication 28(1): 64-92.	Indicators of trends in environmental conditions have been touted as ways to inform the public and provide a "report card" on environmental agency performance, but no quantitative analysis of such claims has been done. A small study of New Jersey residents' reactions to indicators as presented by the state environmental agency found that these indicators were deemed understandable, credible, and useful. However, actual comprehension was not related to perceived understanding, and many in this well-educated sample exhibited the ecological fallacy of inferring local environmental conditions or priority-setting uses that these indicators could not possibly provide. Prior beliefs about statewide trends in environmental quality, accuracy in extracting information from the indicator presentations, and demographic variables had varying but significant effects on reactions to and interpretations of the indicators. These findings have implications for preparation and evaluation of institutional communications about science in general.

Johnson, B. B. and C. Chess (2006). "From the inside out: Environmental agency views about communications with the public." Risk Analysis 26(5): 1395-1407.	Relatively few studies have examined risk communication with the public from the viewpoint of the staff of institutions attempting such communications. This paper reports results of interviews with managers and staff of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, on their programs' current and ideal communications with the public. Q analysis revealed two orthogonal perspectives on current program communications, the Enthused and the Constrained views. The primary focus of their divergence was on the matter of commitment and support for such communications. The Enthused group felt that they had attitudinal support from program culture and managers; the Constrained group focused on the lack of concrete operational support in terms of time, money, and expertise. These differences between the two groups did not appear to be associated with gender, managerial status, education, communication training, or organizational unit. When ideal program communications were discussed, the focus was on the need for all kinds of commitment and support (i.e., culture, managers, time, money, building expertise through training), as well as on more proactive and responsive communication. Both perspectives agreed that communication with the public is essential to their programs' success, trying new ways to communicate is worthwhile, scientific bases for decisions are not compromised by communication, and communication is not delegated to specialists. While varying ideas were held of the public's capacity and interest in communication, citizens were largely not held responsible for communication problems.

Johnson, B. B. and N. F. Dieckmann (2018). "Lay Americans' views of why scientists disagree with each other." Public Understanding of Science 27(7): 824-835.	A survey experiment assessed response to five explanations of scientific disputes: problem complexity, self-interest, values, competence, and process choices (e.g. theories and methods). A US lay sample (n = 453) did not distinguish interests from values, nor competence from process, as explanations of disputes. Process/competence was rated most likely and interests/values least; all, on average, were deemed likely to explain scientific disputes. Latent class analysis revealed distinct subgroups varying in their explanation preferences, with a more complex latent class structure for participants who had heard of scientific disputes in the past. Scientific positivism and judgments of science's credibility were the strongest predictors of latent class membership, controlling for scientific reasoning, political ideology, confidence in choice, scenario, education, gender, age, and ethnicity. The lack of distinction observed overall between different explanations, as well as within classes, raises challenges for further research on explanations of scientific disputes people find credible and why.

Johnson, B. B. and P. Slovic (1994). "Improving Risk Communication and Risk Management - Legislated Solutions or Legislated Disasters." Risk Analysis 14(6): 905-906.
	
Johnson, B. B. and P. Slovic (1995). "Presenting Uncertainty in Health Risk Assessment - Initial Studies of Its Effects on Risk Perception and Trust." Risk Analysis 15(4): 485-494.	Some analysts suggest that discussing uncertainties in health risk assessments might reduce citizens' perceptions of risk and increase their respect for the risk-assessing agency. We tested this assumption with simulated news stories varying simple displays of uncertainty (e.g., a range of risk estimates, with and without graphics). Subjects from Eugene, Oregon, read one story each, and then answered a questionnaire. Three studies tested between 180 and 272 subjects each. Two focus groups obtained more detailed responses to these stories. The results suggested that (1) people are unfamiliar with uncertainty in risk assessments and in science; (2) people may recognize uncertainty when it is presented simply; (3) graphics may help people recognize uncertainty; (4) reactions to the environmental problems in the stories seemed affected less by presentation of uncertainty than by general risk attitudes and perceptions; (5) agency discussion of uncertainty in risk estimates may signal agency honesty and agency incompetence for some people; and (6) people seem to see lower risk estimates (10(-6), as opposed to 10(-3)) as less credible. These findings, if confirmed, would have important implications for risk communication.

Johnson, B. B. and L. Waishwell (2014). "Q method can identify diverse perspectives on 'helpful' information on cancer clusters and inform risk communication generally." Journal of Risk Research 17(9): 1125-1145.	Communication by state public health agencies about cancer clusters is complicated by divergent official and citizen beliefs about causation (e.g. chance versus environmental pollution). We use Q method, rarely applied in the risk field, to explore disparate perspectives on what people deem helpful and unhelpful in background (not site-specific) information about cancer clusters. Q method identified five unique perspectives, with low inter-factor correlations: Cancer Causation, Best Information, Cancer Frequency, Study Success, and Empathy/Competence. Besides discussing implications of these perspectives for improving communication about cancer clusters, we use this case to illustrate Q method's more general ability to represent variability in attitudes about risk and risk information and to improve risk communication.

Johnson, B. L. (1987). "Health Risk Communication at the Agency for Toxic-Substances and Disease Registry." Risk Analysis 7(4): 409-412.
	
Johnson, C. C. (1996). "Report: World Wide Web sites for the dissemination of science to the public a classification into three types." Science Communication 18(1): 80-87.	This report examines various World Wide Web sires that am intended to disseminate scientific information to the public, and classifies these sires into three general types: those sites that were originally intended specifically for an audience with a strong science background but have evolved into sites that include the general public in their overall focus; those sites intended from the outset for a general audience; and those intended from the outset for children. Using descriptions of representative sites, this report discusses some of the characteristics of each category and how well such efforts meet the goal of communicating about science to a populace with increasing access to computers, but not always with the baric or in-depth scientific background to use these sites to their full potential.

Johnson, D. (1998). "The future of psychology - Minds in brains in bodies in environments." Science Communication 20(1): 28-48.	The future of psychology lies in explaining how mind, the brain, other biological systems of the body, and human environments interact to produce behavior: Political, scientific, and technical forces are shaping psychology as a whole, but the subdisciplines of psychology are also acted on by their own forces. The influences of biology and computer science are especially important in the development of some subdisciplines. Infrastructure developments including electronic communication, mathematically bared methodologies, and imaging devices are affecting research in many of the subdisciplines. The future of psychology will be bright if the field can take advantage of periods of political favor train new scientists to work collaboratively facilitate access to infrastructure, and broaden the view of what constitutes psychological research.

Johnson, D. R., et al. (2018). "Responding to Richard: Celebrity and (mis)representation of science." Public Understanding of Science 27(5): 535-549.	Drawing on 48 in-depth interviews conducted with biologists and physicists at universities in the United Kingdom, this study examines scientists' perceptions of the role celebrity scientists play in socially contentious public debates. We examine Richard Dawkins' involvement in public debates related to the relationship between science and religion as a case to analyze scientists' perceptions of the role celebrity scientists play in the public sphere and the implications of celebrity science for the practice of science communication. Findings show that Dawkins' proponents view the celebrity scientist as a provocateur who asserts the cultural authority of science in the public sphere. Critics, who include both religious and nonreligious scientists, argue that Dawkins misrepresents science and scientists and reject his approach to public engagement. Scientists emphasize promotion of science over the scientist, diplomacy over derision, and dialogue over ideological extremism.

Johnson, D. R., et al. (2014). "Narratives of Science Outreach in Elite Contexts of Academic Science." Science Communication 36(1): 81-105.	Using data from interviews with 133 physicists and biologists working at elite research universities in the United States, we analyze narratives of outreach. We identify discipline-specific barriers to outreach and gender-specific rationales for commitment. Physicists view outreach as outside of the scientific role and a possible threat to reputation. Biologists assign greater value to outreach, but their perceptions of the public inhibit commitment. Finally, women are more likely than men to participate in outreach, a commitment that often results in peer-based informal sanctions. The study reveals how the cultural properties of disciplines, including the status of women, shape the meaning and experience of science outreach.

Johnson, F. R. and A. Fisher (1989). "Conventional Wisdom on Risk Communication and Evidence from a Field Experiment." Risk Analysis 9(2): 209-213.
	
Johnston, R. and R. Blumentritt (1998). "Knowledge moves to center stage." Science Communication 20(1): 99-105.	As knowledge becomes a more significant economic and geopolitical force (e.g., through increased trade in knowledge as a commodity), there is need to develop better understanding of the implications of this transformation for science and technology policy studies. What tools will be needed to analyze the role and flows of knowledge ? The authors suggest a taxonomy of nine knowledge processes which might be combined with distinctive knowledge levels as a step toward building a theoretical model.

Jones, A. (2011). "Science for All: The Popularization of Science in Early Twentieth-Century Britain." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 144-144.
	
Jones, A. (2012). "Mary Adams and the producer's role in early BBC science broadcasts." Public Understanding of Science 21(8): 968-983.	Mary Adams was a science producer at the BBC from 1930-6. She is shown to have played a crucial role in shaping science broadcasts, in particular devising formats and styles of presentation. However, her approach is shown to have been primarily motivated by broadcasting considerations rather than by the popularisation of science. Through her interaction with scientists she helped to construct a new professional domain, that of the science-broadcasting professional, at a time when other producers were creating analogous roles in other areas of broadcasting. This paper is based largely on unpublished archival documents.

Jones, C., et al. (2017). "The Future is Now: Reducing Psychological Distance to Increase Public Engagement with Climate Change." Risk Analysis 37(2): 331-341.	Many people perceive climate change as psychologically distant-a set of uncertain events that might occur far in the future, impacting distant places and affecting people dissimilar to themselves. In this study, we employed construal level theory to investigate whether a climate change communication intervention could increase public engagement by reducing the psychological distance of climate change. Australian residents (N = 333) were randomly assigned to one of two treatment conditions: one framed to increase psychological distance to climate change (distal frame), and the other framed to reduce psychological distance (proximal frame). Participants then completed measures of psychological distance of climate change impacts, climate change concern, and intentions to engage in mitigation behavior. Principal components analysis indicated that psychological distance to climate change was best conceptualized as a multidimensional construct consisting of four components: geographic, temporal, social, and uncertainty. Path analysis revealed the effect of the treatment frame on climate change concern and intentions was fully mediated by psychological distance dimensions related to uncertainty and social distance. Our results suggest that climate communications framed to reduce psychological distance represent a promising strategy for increasing public engagement with climate change.

Jones, C. E. (2007). "Street science: Community knowledge and environmental health justice." Public Understanding of Science 16(3): 365-366.
	
Jones, M. and B. Salter (2010). "Proceeding carefully: Assisted human reproduction policy in Canada." Public Understanding of Science 19(4): 420-434.	The Canadian Act Respecting Assisted Human Reproduction and Related Research (AHR Act), which came into effect in 2004, was the culmination of fifteen years of policy development in this often controversial field. Drawing from a series of semi-structured elite interviews and extensive documentary research, we examine the path to policy for the AHR Act. We identified several influences on the Act's development, including: 1) feminist-informed activism which found a balance between rejecting the medical model of reproduction and instituting protections against the commodifying potential of reproductive technologies; 2) Canada's proximity to the United States (and its contrasting structures and stances); 3) the role of professional elites in supporting or resisting the proposed regulations; and 4) the tensions between federal and provincial jurisdiction in the Canadian federalist state. The path to this outcome provides an illuminating study of the tensions between internal and external pressures in the policy process.

Jones, R. (2001). ""Why can't you scientists leave things alone?" - Science questioned in British films of the post-war period (1945-1970)." Public Understanding of Science 10(4): 365-382.	Considerable attention has been paid to the representation of scientists as villains in horror and science fiction films, and to the part this has played in creating the public perception of scientists. But science and scientists have also been represented in films which do not fit readily with the conventions of these genres, and these "mainstream" films allow a more detailed investigation of the public perception of science at the time they were made. This paper examines a number of British mainstream films portraying scientists and science from the period 1945-1970 to see in what ways the conduct of science was being questioned. A concern with the political control of science and the resulting secrecy is evident in a number of the films. The criticism of scientists seems to come from two contradictory directions. Scientists were either seen as too detached and unconcerned about the consequences of their work, or they were too emotional and insufficiently objective. This is in part explained by newer, less deferential attitudes to science co-existing with the older, heroic view during the period under study.

Jones, R. A. (1997). "The Boffin: A stereotype of scientists in post-war British films (1945-1970)." Public Understanding of Science 6(1): 31-48.	The period between 1945 and 1970 was critical for the public reputation of British science. It was also a golden age for British cinema. Feature films of this period are used in this paper as a tool for investigating the public image of the scientist. Three main stereotypes are identified, but one of these, which I have called 'the Boffin' forms the main focus of the paper. 'Boffins' are scientists working with the government and/or armed forces in wartime. An analysis of the portrayal of Barnes Wallis in The Dam Busters provides the main characteristics of the stereotype, and fictional Boffins from other films are compared with this. The origins of the stereotype are traced to the actual situation of scientists in the British war effort, and to class and cultural divisions in post-war Britain. The persistence of the stereotype is also discussed. The implications of this analysis for our understanding of public attitudes to scientists during this period are considered.

Jones, R. A. (1998). "The scientist as artist: a study of The Man in the White Suit and some related British film comedies of the postwar period (1945-1970)." Public Understanding of Science 7(2): 135-147.	The Man in the White Suit is perhaps the major representation of a scientist in mainstream British films of the postwar period. The him was immensely popular at the time of its release in 1951 and continues to be influential today. This paper, which is part of an ongoing study of the image of scientists presented by the cinema during this period, analyzes The Man in the White Suit by comparing it with another film of the period, The Horse's Mouth, which presents an image of an artist, and two related him comedies. Many similarities can be seen between the characters of the scientists and the artists presented in these films. The reason for this, and the origin of the artist stereotype in the Romantic period of the early nineteenth century, are discussed. It is concluded that the stereotype of the artist is used as a model for the scientist because of the lack of familiarity with the nature of scientific creativity; artists and scientists may be treated similarly because both are seen as existing outside of the British class system. The question of whether the apparent innocence of the scientist in these films is seen as admirable or reprehensible is also discussed.

Jones, R. A. (2004). "Science in national cultures: the message of postage stamps." Public Understanding of Science 13(1): 75-81.	Scientists in Britain believe that their work does not receive the recognition that it deserves from the national culture in comparison with continental Europe. Not an easy proposition to test, but possible through a comparison of how the achievements of science have been celebrated through representation on stamps. Postage stamps are official government products, and they are used to transmit and define the official view of the national culture. In this paper I give three examples of the sorts of comparisons that can be made. First, a geographical comparision (Britain, West Germany and France) during the period 1951-1990. Second, a consideration of how the different scientific disciplines have been treated in the three countries. Third, an analysis of the effect of the political system on the way that science is celebrated by comparing the stamps of West and East Germany.

Jones, R. A. L. (2014). "Reflecting on public engagement and science policy." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 27-31.	This article presents a personal reflection on the evolution of thinking about public engagement with science in the UK, with a particular emphasis on the experience with nanotechnology.

Joosse, S. and T. Brydges (2018). "Blogging for Sustainability: The Intermediary Role of Personal Green Blogs in Promoting Sustainability." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(5): 686-700.	The rise of social media radically broadens the sources and platforms used for environmental communication. Especially personal green blogs are worthy of study as they are spaces of everyday cultural politics through which people make sense of sustainability issues, and because they entail a radical break from conventional media in terms of legitimacy, form, and content of environmental communication processes. This paper studies the representation of sustainability on personal green blogs, and the communication processes through which these representations are constructed. It does so through a qualitative study of Swedish-language blogs. We study three blogs in-depth: a living experiment blog on sustainable food practices; a lifestyle blog centered around green family life; and a blog about consuming green beauty products. The analysis shows that all three blogs translate the complex landscape of sustainability to individual everyday practices. Yet, what these sustainability practices entail differs considerably between the blogs, ranging from a-political and doable lifestyle choices to an onset to radical redefining of consumption. Also, the communication processes on the blogs differ in quality and quantity. The paper uses these insights to reflect on the debates about how environmental communication is shaped by blogging and social media practices.

Jorg, D. (2003). "The good, the bad and the ugly - Dr. Moreau goes to Hollywood." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 297-305.	This paper compares three celluloid adaptations (1932, 1977, 1996) of the classic novel by H.G. Wells, The Island of Doctor Moreau. The focus is neither the plot nor the special effects but the presentation of the science and the scientist(s) portrayed, considering the year of production and what was known about cells and genes at that time.

Joubert, M. (2001). "Report: Priorities and challenges for science communication in South Africa." Science Communication 22(3): 316-333.	This report outlines science communication priorities in a country facing the same global issues as the developed world while in a state of transition and situated on an impoverished continent, South Africa's science communication aims are defined, with examples of successes (like science weeks and festivals, and science centers). Highlighting the bridge-building role of local scientists and the media, the report outlines progress and gaps, recommending action that gives South Africans the opportunity to understand and take pride in their country's scientific achievements, and to be able to apply and appreciate science and technology and develop it for future generations.

Joubert, M. (2018). "1967: Reflections on the first human heart transplant and its impact on medicine, media and society." Public Understanding of Science 27(1): 110-114.
	
Jue, M. (2016). "The marvelous clouds: towards an elemental theory of media." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): Nil3-820.
	
Juengst, E. T. (1999). "Genetic testing and the moral dynamics of family life." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 193-205.	American families are a segment of the public that will feel the impact of the Human Genome Project most acutely: but they are also one of the least well studied segments with regard to that impact. Three sets of ethical problems, in particular, deserve more scrutiny: the effect of increased genetic risk assessment on family members' willingness to assist their kin discover mutually incriminating genetic risks, its impact on the candor with which extended families communicate within themselves about their genetic health risks, and its influence on the ways that families seek to protect the interests of their most vulnerable members. In each of these areas, anecdotal experience already shows how genetic testing can undermine a family's commitment to its own interdependence in these ways, and that traditional, multigenerational, sessile families are likely to experience more disruption than either blended families or "virtual families" linked primarily through electronic communication.

Jung, A. (2006). "Quo vadis food risk communication?" Journal of Risk Research 9(8): 819-821.
	
Jungermann, H., et al. (1996). "Credibility, information preferences, and information interests." Risk Analysis 16(2): 251-261.	The Seveso Directive of the European Union demands that information be provided to the public by companies and authorities about facts, risks, and behaviors related to hazardous facilities, in particular chemical facilities. On behalf of the Commission of the European Communities, a survey was run in five European countries on the credibility of various information sources. This article describes the results of the German study. 430 persons were interviewed with a questionnaire of 50 items, in particular about their perceptions and evaluations of technical risks, the credibility of sources of information about chemical risks, their preferences for receiving risk information from these sources, and their interests in receiving information. Major findings are great differences in credibility, differentiated information preferences, and strong information interests. Surprisingly, credibility played only a minor role with regard to the respondents' information preferences and interests.

Junker, K. (1997). "Scientific and technical communications: Theory, practice, and policy - Collier,JH, Toomey,DM." Public Understanding of Science 6(3): 296-297.
	
Junker, K. W. (1997). "The scientific voice - Montgomery,SL." Public Understanding of Science 6(2): 217-219.
	
Jurberg, C., et al. (2009). "Embryonic stem cell: A climax in the reign of the Brazilian media." Public Understanding of Science 18(6): 719-729.	In the last few years, embryonic stem cell research has been widely debated in Brazil and a "star" in the national media. Because of the notoriety of the issue, the media have sometimes been criticized for oversimplification, exaggeration and distortion. In this context, we analyzed the media during an important time: in 2008, the Federal Supreme Court held historical hearings to decide whether Brazilian scientists could continue using embryonic stem cells. First, we focused on letters sent by readers to one of the most popular newspapers, O Globo. Second, we analyzed the Brazilian news coverage of embryonic stem cells during a crucial week in the public debate. At the end of May 2008, under pressure from Brazilian media and society, the Ministers of the Supreme Court approved research using embryonic stem cells.

Kaeser, E. (2013). "Science kitsch and pop science: A reconnaissance." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 559-569.	Science kitsch? The combination of these two words rings like an oxymoron. Science - as the common saying has it - exposes, discovers, tells the truth; kitsch conceals, covers, lies. I think, this shadow of science deserves a specific scrutiny, not only because it reflects the altered place and role of science in contemporary knowledge society but also because it pinpoints the task of relocating science in the multicultural context of postmodernism, with its different epistemic claims. The genre of science kitsch may help to regain credit by working as a probe to detect false pretensions, explanatory exuberance and exaggerations in science.

Kahan, D. M. (2017). ""Ordinary science intelligence': a science-comprehension measure for study of risk and science communication, with notes on evolution and climate change." Journal of Risk Research 20(8): 995-1016.	This paper describes the ordinary science intelligence' scale (OSI_2.0). Designed for use in the empirical study of risk perception and science communication, OSI_2.0 comprises items intended to measure a latent capacity to recognize and make use of valid scientific evidence in everyday decision-making. The derivation of the items, the relationship of them to the knowledge and skills OSI requires, and the psychometric properties of the scale are examined. Evidence of the external validity of OSI_2.0 is also presented. Finally, the utility of OSI_2.0 is briefly illustrated by its use to assess standard survey items on evolution and global warming: when administered to members of a US general population sample, these items are more convincingly viewed as indicators of one or another latent cultural identity than as indicators of science comprehension.

Kahan, D. M., et al. (2011). "Cultural cognition of scientific consensus." Journal of Risk Research 14(2): 147-174.	Why do members of the public disagree - sharply and persistently - about facts on which expert scientists largely agree? We designed a study to test a distinctive explanation: the cultural cognition of scientific consensus. The 'cultural cognition of risk' refers to the tendency of individuals to form risk perceptions that are congenial to their values. The study presents both correlational and experimental evidence confirming that cultural cognition shapes individuals' beliefs about the existence of scientific consensus, and the process by which they form such beliefs, relating to climate change, the disposal of nuclear wastes, and the effect of permitting concealed possession of handguns. The implications of this dynamic for science communication and public policy-making are discussed.

Kahlor, L., et al. (2002). "Attributions in explanations of risk estimates." Public Understanding of Science 11(3): 243-257.	In the spring. of 1993, nearly 40 percent of Milwaukee-area residents experienced a nationally publicized outbreak of cryptosporidium, a parasite that infested the metropolitan drinking water supply. Using open-ended survey data gathered from 610 adult residents in the wake of that outbreak, this study looks-at factors related to the ways in which people make sense of their quantitative personal risk estimates. The concepts of informal reasoning and attribution aided this endeavor. Analysis of open-ended comments about the risk of getting ill from a waterborne parasite indicated that explanations of personal risk were consistent with predictions made-by attribution theory. Good outcomes, which included having remained healthy during the outbreak, were associated with a greater likelihood that respondents would attribute causation to themselves, while one specific bad outcome, having experienced the illness, was associated with a greater likelihood that respondents would attribute causation externally. This study also examined predictors of whether respondents employed probabilistic language in those attributions. Analysis indicated that income was positively related to the use of probability-oriented language, while age and race were negatively related to the use of such language (i.e., persons of color and older individuals were less likely to use such language).

Kahlor, L., et al. (2006). "Seeking and processing information about impersonal risk." Science Communication 28(2): 163-194.	Attempts to model risk response tend to focus on risks that pose a direct personal threat. This study examined the applicability of one risk response model to impersonal risks-risks that threaten something other than the self, in this case, the environment. This study utilized a section of the Griffin et al. risk-information seeking and processing model, which depicts relationships between informational subjective norms and information seeking and processing as being mediated by perceptions of information insufficiency. The results indicate that while those relationships do hold for impersonal risk, informational subjective norms (perceived social pressure to be informed) may play an even more complex role than initially anticipated. These norms may be a powerful predictor of seeking and processing when individuals face impersonal risks.

Kahlor, L., et al. (2003). "Studying heuristic-systematic processing of risk communication." Risk Analysis 23(2): 355-368.	Using a model of risk information seeking and processing developed by Griffin, Dunwoody, and Neuwirth (1999), this study looks at predictors of the processing strategies that people apply to health risk information. Specifically, this article focuses on one relationship within the model-the relationship between perceived amount of information needed to deal with a risk and heuristic-systematic processing. Perceived amount of information needed refers to the gap between one's understanding of a risk and the level of understanding that one needs in order to make a decision about that risk. Building on the work of Chaiken (cf. 1980), the Griffin et al. model predicts-and finds-that the larger the gap, the more likely one will process information systematically. The study employs a novel measure of information processing in a survey setting by sending actual information to participants and then asking them how they attended to it; the researchers evaluate this strategy. Finally, the researchers discuss how these findings might help agencies and practitioners create more effective risk messages.

Kahlor, L. and S. Rosenthal (2009). "If We Seek, Do We Learn? Predicting Knowledge of Global Warming." Science Communication 30(3): 380-414.	Derived from the risk information seeking and processing model (RISP), this study sought to isolate predictors of the public's knowledge of global warming. Using a national sample (N = 805), multiple regression yielded a number of significant relationships among 13 moderators. Notably, the number of media sources used for information about global warming, information seeking effort, and general education were relatively strong predictors of knowledge. Counter to expectations, informational subjective norms were inversely related to knowledge.

Kahlor, L. A., et al. (2016). "Ethics Information Seeking and Sharing Among Scientists: The Case of Nanotechnology." Science Communication 38(1): 74-98.	As nanotechnologies permeate our daily lives, it is increasingly important that we understand the ethical considerations of these innovations and to what extent scientists attend to these considerations. Guided by the theory of reasoned action and an extended version of that model that includes prior knowledge, sense of responsibility, and ethics involvement, we surveyed a sample of nanoscientists to explore their ethics information seeking and sharing. Path analyses support the theory of reasoned action as a useful framework. Findings suggest that making ethics information more available to scientists and redoubling social pressure to seek and share ethics information may help close the ethics-to-practice gap that exists today.

Kahlor, L. A., et al. (2004). "Predicting knowledge complexity in the wake of an environmental risk." Science Communication 26(1): 5-30.	In 1993, the parasite cryptosporidium infested the Milwaukee-a rea drinking supply and sickened some 400,000 people. This study uses survey data gathered from 610 residents in the wake of that outbreak to look at predictors of the complexity of people's understanding of two causal components of the outbreak: (1) how the parasite got into the water and (2) how it caused illness in the human body. Analysis of open-ended data indicated that, consistent with the predictors used in the knowledge gap literature, indicators of socioeconomic status are significant predictors of differences in explanatory complexity. Also, consistent with the literature on motivation and knowledge seeking, experience with and worry about the parasite served as predictors of explanatory complexity under certain circumstances.

Kaiser, J. and M. Rhomberg (2016). "Questioning the Doubt: Climate Skepticism in German Newspaper Reporting on COP17." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(5): 556-574.	Despite numerous international studies on climate change, there is skepticism in the media and it is prominent in public opinion polls. This article focuses in particular on the framing of climate skepticism in Germany, a country that, in the main, is said to be convinced about climate change. By using a two-step content analysis of 379 news articles (print and online) we demonstrate that climate skepticism is present in German news media reporting on the 17th Conference of the Parties (COP17) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Durban, South Africa. We identify two overarching skepticism frames: skepticism about the phenomenon of climate change and about climate science. Our analysis further shows that climate skepticism is not exclusive to a specific political ideology, even though a newspaper's ideology may influence how skeptical frames are being evaluated.

Kaiser, M. (2012). "Commentary: looking for conflict and finding none?" Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 188-194.
	
Kajanne, A. and A. M. Pirttila-Backman (1999). "Laypeople's viewpoints about the reasons for expert controversy regarding food additives." Public Understanding of Science 8(4): 303-315.	The focus in this study is on the thoughts and opinions of the general public to the divergence in expert standpoints regarding additives in food. The relation of education, length of work experience, occupational field, gender, and people's ideas on this matter, as well as the changes in it, were of interest. Fifty-nine young and middle-aged Finnish adults were interviewed during the years 1986-1988 and again in 1993-1994. The semi-structured interview included straightforward questions about reasons for disagreements among experts regarding additives; in ocher parts of the interview people could spontaneously comment on the discrepancies. Three main categories of reasons for the disagreement emerged. General difficulty in obtaining scientific knowledge was the most common reason given. In the second interview round, a greater number of less well-educated interviewees expressed views in this category. The second category was various interest-related reasons. The increase of these notions was statistically significant among the academics. The least common category concerned differences in the caliber and personal background of experts. Especially people with long experience in working life increased their notions in all three categories. The results showed that people are well aware of the many factors that may influence the acquisition of scientific knowledge, as well as its use. Moreover, the results showed that the more education people have the more aware they are of the various interests. Because laypeople have experiences and viewpoints about various open questions and risks, it is suggested here that their opinions should receive more attention in the public discussion of similar issues.

Kakonge, J. O. (2013). "Fostering Partnerships With Media Organizations to Improve Climate Change Coverage in Africa." Science Communication 35(3): 411-416.	The media coverage of climate change issues is in decline in both the developed and developing countries. This situation calls for innovative ways by which the costs associated with climate change coverage can be shared and defrayed; it needs to attract true partners within the media sector and beyond in addressing climate change issues; and it must develop practical solutions to overcoming the systemic public apathy toward climate science and climate science journalism in developing countries.

Kalampalikis, N. (2014). "The magic of social thought Introduction." Public Understanding of Science 23(7): 755-758.	Studying social thinking provides a promising field of investigation for the constitution of common knowledge in communication and action of historically and culturally situated groups. Its genealogy helps the understanding of the symbolic efficacy of social practices and their own operating collective logic. The English translation of a short version of Serge Moscovici's article on the new magical thinking allows a wider audience to gain access, for the first time, to a text that perfectly illustrates the currentness and relevance of the social psychology of knowledge.

Kallenberg, K. (2007). "The role of risk in corporate value: A case study of the ABB asbestos litigation." Journal of Risk Research 10(8): 1007-1025.	The need for fair risk communication has emerged as a result of a more global and more flexible economy as well as of a media dominated world. Proper risk management and risk communication is therefore crucial today. The paper discusses the need for open and direct communication with the public in order to establish trust and to maintain market value. The case discussed is that of ABB (Asea Brown Boveri) asbestos litigation and the dramatic consequences it had for the company. During 2001 and 2002, the ABB share price fell by roughly 90 percent. The present study indicates that more than 50 percent of the fall was related to asbestos reporting by the media and ABB, primarily during the second half of 2002. The need for further understanding of and procedures for dealing with risks and risk communication in a business context is stressed. The outcome for ABB could have been different if more precise and defined ways of working with and communicating risks had been employed. Due to the asbestos crisis and the dramatic fall in ABB share price, ABB has implemented more structured operational risk management tools and displays a more outspoken awareness of environmental and social risk factors. This new strategy has emerged mainly as a result of an increased work with sustainability issues and a shift from a consensual/technocratic risk approach to a more deliberative mode of risk management.

Kallerud, E. and I. Ramberg (2002). "The order of discourse in surveys of public understanding of science." Public Understanding of Science 11(3): 213-224.	This paper discusses how insights from constructivist. studies on the place of context, reflexivity, and framing in studies of public understanding of science may be applied within a survey framework. By emphasizing the role that images or ideologies of science play in science policy discourse, surveys are conceptualized as a means to map the social pervasiveness of such ideologies. It is argued that survey results may contribute to a broadening of the framework of science policy, if questions that explicitly reflect civic perspectives on science are included in survey questionnaires. An experiment with three non-standard questions in a Norwegian survey in 1999 on public understanding of science is seen to provide some empirical support for the viability of this approach.

Kallstrand, G. (2018). "The image of the Nobel Prize." Public Understanding of Science 27(4): 405-416.	This article traces the origins of the Nobel Prize as a ubiquitous symbol of excellence in science. The public image of the Nobel Prize was created and became established quickly, which can be explained by it being such a useful phenomenon for the co-production of other values and ideas such as national prestige. Through being an easily recognizable symbol for excellence, the Nobel Prize is an important factor for the public image of science. And the image of the Nobel Prize is co-produced with several other sets of values and images that range from the large and thematic to the local and specific.

Kamolpattana, S., et al. (2015). "Thai visitors' expectations and experiences of explainer interaction within a science museum context." Public Understanding of Science 24(1): 69-85.	In Western literature, there is evidence that museum explainers offer significant potential for enhancing visitors' learning through influencing their knowledge, content, action, behaviour and attitudes. However, little research has focused on the role of explainers in other cultural contexts. This study explored interactions between visitors and museum explainers within the setting of Thailand. Two questionnaires were distributed to 600 visitors and 41 museum explainers. The results demonstrated both potential similarities and differences with Western contexts. Explainers appeared to prefer didactic approaches, focussing on factual knowledge rather than encouraging deep learning. Two-way communication, however, appeared to be enhanced by the use of a pseudo-sibling relationship' by explainers. Traditional Thai social reserve was reduced through such approaches, with visitors taking on active learning roles. These findings have implications for training museum explainers in non-Western cultures, as well as museum communication practice more generally.

Kandiah, V., et al. (2017). "An Empirical Agent-Based Model to Simulate the Adoption of Water Reuse Using the Social Amplification of Risk Framework." Risk Analysis 37(10): 2005-2022.	Water reuse can serve as a sustainable alternative water source for urban areas. However, the successful implementation of large-scale water reuse projects depends on community acceptance. Because of the negative perceptions that are traditionally associated with reclaimed water, water reuse is often not considered in the development of urban water management plans. This study develops a simulation model for understanding community opinion dynamics surrounding the issue of water reuse, and how individual perceptions evolve within that context, which can help in the planning and decision-making process. Based on the social amplification of risk framework, our agent-based model simulates consumer perceptions, discussion patterns, and their adoption or rejection of water reuse. The model is based on the risk publics model, an empirical approach that uses the concept of belief clusters to explain the adoption of new technology. Each household is represented as an agent, and parameters that define their behavior and attributes are defined from survey data. Community-level parametersincluding social groups, relationships, and communication variables, also from survey dataare encoded to simulate the social processes that influence community opinion. The model demonstrates its capabilities to simulate opinion dynamics and consumer adoption of water reuse. In addition, based on empirical data, the model is applied to investigate water reuse behavior in different regions of the United States. Importantly, our results reveal that public opinion dynamics emerge differently based on membership in opinion clusters, frequency of discussion, and the structure of social networks.

Kapon, S. (2014). "Bridging the knowledge gap: An analysis of Albert Einstein's popularized presentation of the equivalence of mass and energy." Public Understanding of Science 23(8): 1013-1024.	This article presents an analysis of a scientific article written by Albert Einstein in 1946 for the general public that explains the equivalence of mass and energy and discusses the implications of this principle. It is argued that an intelligent popularization of many advanced ideas in physics requires more than the simple elimination of mathematical formalisms and complicated scientific conceptions. Rather, it is shown that Einstein developed an alternative argument for the general public that bypasses the core of the formal derivation of the equivalence of mass and energy to provide a sense of derivation based on the history of science and the nature of scientific inquiry. This alternative argument is supported and enhanced by variety of explanatory devices orchestrated to coherently support and promote the reader's understanding. The discussion centers on comparisons to other scientific expositions written by Einstein for the general public.

Kaptan, G., et al. (2018). "Extrapolating understanding of food risk perceptions to emerging food safety cases." Journal of Risk Research 21(8): 996-1018.	Important determinants of risk perceptions associated with foods are the extent to which the potential hazards are perceived to have technological or naturally occurring origins, together with the acute vs. chronic dimension in which the potential hazard is presented (acute or chronic). This study presents a case study analysis based on an extensive literature review examining how these hazard characteristics affect people's risk and benefit perceptions, and associated attitudes and behaviors. The cases include E. coli incidences (outbreaks linked to fresh spinach and fenugreek sprouts), contamination of fish by environmental pollutants, (organochlorine contaminants in farmed salmon), radioactive contamination of food following a nuclear accident (the Fukushima accident in Japan), and GM salmon destined for the human food chain. The analysis of the cases over the acute vs. chronic dimension suggests that longitudinal quantification of the relationship between risk perceptions and impacts is important for both acute and chronic food safety, but this has infrequently been applied to chronic hazards. Technologies applied to food production tend to potentially be associated with higher levels of risk perception, linked to perceptions that the risk is unnatural. However, for some risks (e.g. those involving biological irreversibility), moral or ethical concerns may be more important determinants of consumer responses than risk or benefit perceptions. (Lack of) trust has been highlighted in all of the cases suggesting transparent and honest risk-benefit communications following the occurrence of a food safety incident. Implications for optimizing associated risk communication strategies, additional research linking risk perception, and other quantitative measures, including comparisons in time and space, are suggested.

Karani, P. and J. B. Ojwang (1996). "Intellectual property in international relations - Technology transfer." Science Communication 17(3): 326-337.	This article explores how the integration of intellectual property in international relations could facilitate the transfer of technology from the North to the South. The role of technical and development cooperation among countries is imperative to international relations. international relations enhance cooperation among countries and make possible the inflow and outflow of capital goods and services among cooperating countries. Today, people think about the North as having control over advanced technologies revolving around intellectual property, which deals with specialized issues and which is governed by such specialized branches of law as industrial property law and copyright law Considering the fact that issues pertaining to technologies are invariably an integral part of any policy designed to achieve sustainable development at all levels, integrating intellectual property discussion in international relations could facilitate acquisition of expired patents by developing countries for accelerated expansion of their social construction.

Karner, A. (2008). "Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change." Public Understanding of Science 17(4): 503-505.
	
Kasperson, R. (2014). "Four questions for risk communication: a response to Roger Kasperson Commentary on commentaries." Journal of Risk Research 17(10): 1283-1284.
	
Kasperson, R. (2014). "Four questions for risk communication." Journal of Risk Research 17(10): 1233-1239.	Over the past nearly 30 years, a flood of work on risk communication initiatives and analyses has appeared. And yet the practice of risk communication by corporations, federal agencies, and ideal government in many respect seem little changed from practice decades ago. The time is overdue to address some tough questions for the architects and craftsmen who shape and implement the practice of risk communication. This retrospective proceeds with four major questions:
What major successes and failures can we point to that shed light on what has been learned and not learned since the 1989 NRC report?
Assessing and communicating uncertainty often befuddles decision-makers and risk managers. How are these needs handled, and how well, in current practice and analysis? How can we do better?
While risks are an inescapable part of the governance and democratic process, the reservoir of social trust is and has been in long-term decline. How successfully is declining trust handled in risk governance processes?
Can the lessons learned and answers to the above be translated into a new list of principles for risk communication going forward?
We take up these four questions in sequence.

Kasperson, R. E. (1986). "6 Propositions on Public-Participation and Their Relevance for Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 6(3): 275-281.
	
Kassing, J. W., et al. (2010). "Development and Validation of the Environmental Communication Scale." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(1): 1-21.	Although environmental communication has grown considerably over the past several decades, no assessment tool exists to measure the degree to which people actually engage in environmental communication. To redress this matter, we developed the Environmental Communication Scale (ECS). The ECS is a 20-item measure that assesses environmental communication along three dimensions: practicing, dismissing, and confirming. Practicing and dismissing environmental communication dimensions assess the degree to which people engage in or avoid conversations and media reports about environmental issues. The confirming dimension taps people's attitudes regarding the importance and necessity of engaging in environmental communication. The ECS appears to have construct validity, relating as expected to people's self-reports about attitudes regarding the environment, motives for acting favorably toward the environment, concerns about environmental issues, and pro-environmental behaviors. In addition, the measure appears to perform reliably and consistently across time.

Kato-Nitta, N. (2013). "The influence of cultural capital on consumption of scientific culture: A survey of visitors to an open house event at a public scientific research institution." Public Understanding of Science 22(3): 321-334.	Based on the concept of cultural capital, this study explores the relationship between habitual behaviors of individuals regarding their past accumulation of such capital and current responses to a scientific institute's public outreach activity. At an open house held at the Institute for Molecular Science (IMS), anonymous questionnaires were distributed among 1,350 visitors and collected from 785 of them (collection rate = 58.1%). The results, measuring the past five to six years, showed that the respondents accumulated cultural capital through participation in scientific activities as well as in activities involving art, music, and literature. Given these quantified values, correlations between citizens' levels of accumulated cultural capital and their current scientific consumption behavior were studied. A statistical analysis of the two components of cultural capital (science and technology/art and literature) showed that people's accumulated scientific capital influenced their current behavior and revealed a correlation between the two components.

Kato-Nitta, N., et al. (2018). "Understanding the public, the visitors, and the participants in science communication activities." Public Understanding of Science 27(7): 857-875.	Despite the promotion of public engagement in science, there has been little empirical research on the sociocultural and attitudinal characteristics of participants in science communication activities and the extent to which such individuals are representative of the general population. We statistically investigated the distinctiveness of visitors to a scientific research institution by contrasting samples from visitor surveys and nationally representative surveys. The visitors had more cultural capital (science and technology/art and literature) and believed more in the value of science than the general public, but there was no difference regarding assessment of the levels of national science or of the national economy. A deeper examination of the variations in the visitors' exhibit-viewing behaviors revealed that individuals with more scientific and technical cultural capital viewed more exhibits and stayed longer at the events. This trend in exhibit-viewing behaviors remained consistent among the different questionnaire items and smart-card records.

Katz, E., et al. (2009). "Evolving scientific research governance in Australia: a case study of engaging interested publics in nanotechnology research." Public Understanding of Science 18(5): 531-545.	This paper examines the prospects for integrating social context questions within science and technology research and development governance. While the use of public engagement to investigate social aspects of emerging technologies is increasingly accepted, incorporating social understandings into research and development processes is far less developed. The paper outlines two Australian public engagement workshops in the social issues of nanotechnologies, and a third workshop with nanoscientists, which explored governance options for incorporating social context questions within research processes. Our research suggests that in Australia we are still some distance from integrating social issues into nanotechnology research and development governance. In part, this is because the difficulties of prediction and control of nanotechnologies, together with particular characteristics of scientific cultures and institutions, make both prospects and outcomes of integration difficult to assess.

Katz, R. (2010). "You Are What You Environmentally, Politically, Socially, and Economically Eat: Delivering the Sustainable Farm and Food Message." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(3): 371-377.
	
Katz-Kimchi, M. and L. Atkinson (2014). "Popular Climate Science and Painless Consumer Choices: Communicating Climate Change in the Hot Pink Flamingos Exhibit, Monterey Bay Aquarium, California." Science Communication 36(6): 754-777.	Using critical discourse analysis, we examine the communicative potential of science centers to engage the public in climate change science. Drawing on a theoretical framework combining climate change engagement and communication, science centers as sites of engagement and communication, ecological citizenship, and insights from social cognitive theory, our analysis shows that along with popularizing climate science and making it accessible to the general public, the Hot Pink Flamingos exhibit prioritized individual, marketplace-based action on climate change over solutions requiring large-scale social change or collective action. Responsibility for climate change was individualized, and the political realm was mostly reduced to lifestyle choices.

Katz-Kimchi, M. and B. Goodwin (2015). "FORUM: Organizing and Integrating Knowledge about Environmental Communication INTRODUCTION." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 367-369.	Environmental communication has emerged as an expanding academic field in the last three decades. Over the last 20 years, the field has become institutionalized, culminating in the founding of the journal Environmental Communication, the International Environmental Communication Association (IECA), and a couple of sections and divisions in established academic associations. The issue of whether these institutionalization processes have been accompanied by a parallel formation of an integrated and organized body of knowledge in environmental communication was raised directly with leading scholars holding a diversity of views and experiences within the field in a special extended session during the annual meeting of the International Communication Association (ICA) in London in June 2013. In this special section we present their contributions and reflections as regards theories, knowledge, actors, and future challenges in the field.

Katz-Kimchi, M. and I. Manosevitch (2015). "Mobilizing Facebook Users against Facebook's Energy Policy: The Case of Greenpeace Unfriend Coal Campaign." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(2): 248-267.	This research analyzes Greenpeace International Unfriend Coal protest campaign against Facebook's energy policy (2010-2011), as a case study in the organization's approach to campaigning on climate change issues. In the context of Greenpeace protest history and social movement research, we focus on the online mobilization tactics used by Greenpeace, and how they differed from previous campaign practices. The findings are based on a content analysis of all statuses posted on the campaign Facebook page (N = 119), and six semi-structured interviews with key Greenpeace personnel. The analysis reveals that Greenpeace used Facebook extensively both for disseminating information and context about the campaign, and as a platform for mobilizing and facilitating broad public engagement. Greenpeace seized the affordances of the Facebook platform and introduced new means of online mobilization and engagement. These e-tactics proved effective for engaging diverse transnational supporters in the campaign. The implications for environmental non-governmental organizations and the broader environmental movement are discussed.

Katz-Rosene, R. M. (2017). "From Narrative of Promise to Rhetoric of Sustainability: A Genealogy of Oil Sands." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(3): 401-414.	Since its conception, "oil sands" has been the name of a pro-development narrative seeking to convince skeptics that bitumen saturating the sandstone of Alberta's Athabasca region ought to be extracted and chemically altered into Synthetic Crude Oil (SCO). Over the decades, the nature of skepticism has changed, and thus oil sands (along with its meanings and claims) has been continually reproduced so as to placate new criticisms. This paper offers a discursive genealogy of the oil sands narrative, demonstrating how it has been transformed from what was throughout the twentieth century a materially situated "narrative of promise" aiming to prove that SCO production was physically possible and that it could be commercially profitable, into what by 2015 was at its core a largely reactive "rhetoric of sustainability" aiming to convince a new class of critics that, contrary to their claims, SCO was in fact being produced in an environmentally responsible manner.

Kawamoto, S., et al. (2013). "A survey of scientific literacy to provide a foundation for designing science communication in Japan." Public Understanding of Science 22(6): 674-690.	There are various definitions and survey methods for scientific literacy. Taking into consideration the contemporary significance of scientific literacy, we have defined it with an emphasis on its social aspects. To acquire the insights needed to design a form of science communication that will enhance the scientific literacy of each individual, we conducted a large-scale random survey within Japan of individuals older than 18 years, using a printed questionnaire. The data thus acquired were analyzed using factor analysis and cluster analysis to create a 3-factor/4-cluster model of people's interest and attitude toward science, technology and society and their resulting tendencies. Differences were found among the four clusters in terms of the three factors: scientific factor, social factor, and science-appreciating factor. We propose a plan for designing a form of science communication that is appropriate to this current status of scientific literacy in Japan.

Kaye, H. L. (2001). "The making of a Darwinian left." Public Understanding of Science 10(4): 435-440.
	
Kaylor, B. (2013). "Earth-a-lujah!: The Prophetic Environmental Discourse of Reverend Billy." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(3): 391-408.	Although rhetorical scholars often examine forms of prophetic discourse, such efforts have primarily focused on the jeremiad or similar rhetorical forms that place emphasis on exhorting the people to return to following the covenant or face negative consequences. However, such messages do not represent the breadth of rhetorical techniques utilized by the biblical prophets. Thus, this study will suggest a new genre of prophetic discourse that activist and performance artist Reverend Billy embodies in his environmental critique of JP Morgan Chase. Implications from this analysis concern both the importance of identifying and understanding this rhetorical form of the imaginative prophet and how Reverend Billy uses this approach to advance his view of environmental agenda.

Keegan, D. and S. Bannister (2007). "Untitled." Science Communication 29(1): 138-138.
	
Keeney, R. L. and D. Vonwinterfeldt (1986). "Improving Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 6(4): 417-424.
	
Kellems, L. A. (2016). "Media and the ecological crisis." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 1023-1023.
	
Kellens, W., et al. (2013). "Perception and Communication of Flood Risks: A Systematic Review of Empirical Research." Risk Analysis 33(1): 24-49.	Flood hazards are the most common and destructive of all natural disasters. For decades, experts have been examining how flood losses can be mitigated. Just as in other risk domains, the study of risk perception and risk communication has gained increasing interest in flood risk management. Because of this research growth, a review of the state of the art in this domain is believed necessary. The review comprises 57 empirically based peer-reviewed articles on flood risk perception and communication from the Web of Science and Scopus databases. The characteristics of these articles are listed in a comprehensive table, presenting research design, research variables, and key findings. From this review, it follows that the majority of studies are of exploratory nature and have not applied any of the theoretical frameworks that are available in social science research. Consequently, a methodological standardization in measuring and analyzing people's flood risk perceptions and their adaptive behaviors is hardly present. This heterogeneity leads to difficulties in comparing results among studies. It is also shown that theoretical and empirical studies on flood risk communication are nearly nonexistent. The article concludes with a summary on methodological issues in the fields of flood-risk perception and flood-risk communication and proposes an agenda for future research.

Kellens, W., et al. (2012). "The Informed Society: An Analysis of the Public's Information-Seeking Behavior Regarding Coastal Flood Risks." Risk Analysis 32(8): 1369-1381.	Recent flood risk management puts an increasing emphasis on the public's risk perception and its preferences. It is now widely recognized that a better knowledge of the public's awareness and concern about risks is of vital importance to outline effective risk communication strategies. Models such as Risk Information Seeking and Processing address this evolution by considering the public's needs and its information-seeking behavior with regard to risk information. This study builds upon earlier information-seeking models and focuses on the empirical relationships between information-seeking behavior and the constructs of risk perception, perceived hazard knowledge, response efficacy, and information need in the context of coastal flood risks. Specific focus is given to the mediating role of information need in the model and to the differences in information-seeking behavior between permanent and temporary residents. By means of a structured on-line questionnaire, a cross-sectional survey was carried out in the city of Ostend, one of the most vulnerable places to coastal flooding on the Belgian coast. Three hundred thirteen respondents participated in the survey. Path analysis reveals that information need does not act as a mediator in contrast to risk perception and perceived knowledge. In addition, it is shown that risk perception and perceived hazard knowledge are higher for permanent than temporary residents, leading to increased information-seeking behavior among the former group. Implications for risk communication are discussed.

Kellens, W., et al. (2011). "An Analysis of the Public Perception of Flood Risk on the Belgian Coast." Risk Analysis 31(7): 1055-1068.	In recent years, perception of flood risks has become an important topic to policy makers concerned with risk management and safety issues. Knowledge of the public risk perception is considered a crucial aspect in modern flood risk management as it steers the development of effective and efficient flood mitigation strategies. This study aimed at gaining insight into the perception of flood risks along the Belgian coast. Given the importance of the tourism industry on the Belgian coast, the survey considered both inhabitants and residential tourists. Based on actual expert's risk assessments, a high and a low risk area were selected for the study. Risk perception was assessed on the basis of scaled items regarding storm surges and coastal flood risks. In addition, various personal and residence characteristics were measured. Using multiple regression analysis, risk perception was found to be primarily influenced by actual flood risk estimates, age, gender, and experience with previous flood hazards.

Keller, C. (2011). "Using a Familiar Risk Comparison Within a Risk Ladder to Improve Risk Understanding by Low Numerates: A Study of Visual Attention." Risk Analysis 31(7): 1043-1054.	Previous experimental research provides evidence that a familiar risk comparison within a risk ladder is understood by low-and high-numerate individuals. It especially helps low numerates to better evaluate risk. In the present study, an eye tracker was used to capture individuals' visual attention to a familiar risk comparison, such as the risk associated with smoking. Two parameters of information processing-efficiency and level-were derived from visual attention. A random sample of participants from the general population (N = 68) interpreted a given risk level with the help of the risk ladder. Numeracy was negatively correlated with overall visual attention on the risk ladder (r(s) = -0.28, p = 0.01), indicating that the lower the numeracy, the more the time spent looking at the whole risk ladder. Numeracy was positively correlated with the efficiency of processing relevant frequency (rs = 0.34, p < 0.001) and relevant textual information (r(s) = 0.34, p < 0.001), but not with the efficiency of processing relevant comparative information and numerical information. There was a significant negative correlation between numeracy and the level of processing of relevant comparative risk information (r(s) = -0.21, p < 0.01), indicating that low numerates processed the comparative risk information more deeply than the high numerates. There was no correlation between numeracy and perceived risk. These results add to previous experimental research, indicating that the smoking risk comparison was crucial for low numerates to evaluate and understand risk. Furthermore, the eye-tracker method is promising for studying information processing and improving risk communication formats.

Keller, C., et al. (2006). "The role of the affect and availability heuristics in risk communication." Risk Analysis 26(3): 631-639.	Results of past research suggest that affect plays an important role in risk perception. Because affect may also increase the availability of risks, affect and availability are closely related concepts. Three studies tested the hypothesis that evoking negative affect (fear), either through past experience or through experimental manipulation, results in greater perceived risk. The present research focused on perception of flooding risk. Study 1 and Study 2 showed that participants who received risk information concerning a longer time period (e.g., 30 years) perceived more danger compared with participants who received risk information for one year. Study 2 showed that the interpretation of risk information was influenced by participants' own experiences with flooding. In Study 3, affect was experimentally manipulated. After looking at photographs depicting houses in a flooded region, participants perceived greater risk compared with participants in a control group. Taken together, the results of these three studies suggest that affect is important for successful risk communication. Results of the present research are in line with the affect heuristic proposed by Slovic and colleagues.

Keller, C., et al. (2009). "Effect of Risk Ladder Format on Risk Perception in High- and Low-Numerate Individuals." Risk Analysis 29(9): 1255-1264.	Utilizing a random sample from the general population (N = 257), we examined the effect of the radon risk ladder on risk perception, as qualified by respondents' numeracy. The radon risk ladder provides comparative risk information about the radon equivalent of smoking risk. We compared a risk ladder providing smoking risk information with a risk ladder not providing this information. A 2 (numeracy; high, low) x 3 (risk level; high, medium, low) x 2 (smoking risk comparison: with/without) between subjects experimental design was used. A significant (p < 0.045) three-way interaction between format, risk level, and numeracy was identified. Participants with low numeracy skills, as well as participants with high numeracy skills, generally distinguished between low, medium, and high risk levels when the risk ladder with comparative smoking risk information was presented. When the risk ladder without the comparative information about the smoking risk was presented, low-numerate individuals differentiated between risk levels to a much lesser extent than high-numerate individuals did. These results provide empirical evidence that the risk ladder can be a useful tool in enabling people to interpret various risk levels. Additionally, these results allow us to conclude that providing comparative information within a risk ladder is particularly helpful to the understanding of different risk levels by people with low numeracy skills.

Keller, C., et al. (2012). "Affective Imagery and Acceptance of Replacing Nuclear Power Plants." Risk Analysis 32(3): 464-477.	This study examined the relationship between the content of spontaneous associations with nuclear power plants and the acceptance of using new-generation nuclear power plants to replace old ones. The study also considered gender as a variable. A representative sample of the German- and French-speaking population of Switzerland (N= 1,221) was used. Log-linear models revealed significant two-way interactions between the association content and acceptance, association content and gender, and gender and acceptance. Correspondence analysis revealed that participants who were opposed to nuclear power plants mainly associated nuclear power plants with risk, negative feelings, accidents, radioactivity, waste disposal, military use, and negative consequences for health and environment; whereas participants favoring nuclear power plants mainly associated them with energy, appearance descriptions of nuclear power plants, and necessity. Thus, individuals opposing nuclear power plants had both more concrete and more diverse associations with them than people who were in favor of nuclear power plants. In addition, participants who were undecided often mentioned similar associations to those participants who were in favor. Males more often expressed associations with energy, waste disposal, and negative health effects. Females more often made associations with appearance descriptions, negative feelings, and negative environmental effects. The results further suggest that acceptance of replacing nuclear power plants was higher in the German-speaking part of the country, where all of the Swiss nuclear power plants are physically located. Practical implications for risk communication are discussed.

Kellstedt, P. M., et al. (2008). "Personal efficacy, the information environment, and attitudes toward global warming and climate change in the United States." Risk Analysis 28(1): 113-126.	Despite the growing scientific consensus about the risks of global warming and climate change, the mass media frequently portray the subject as one of great scientific controversy and debate. And yet previous studies of the mass public's subjective assessments of the risks of global warming and climate change have not sufficiently examined public informedness, public confidence in climate scientists, and the role of personal efficacy in affecting global warming outcomes. By examining the results of a survey on an original and representative sample of Americans, we find that these three forces-informedness, confidence in scientists, and personal efficacy-are related in interesting and unexpected ways, and exert significant influence on risk assessments of global warming and climate change. In particular, more informed respondents both feel less personally responsible for global warming, and also show less concern for global warming. We also find that confidence in scientists has unexpected effects: respondents with high confidence in scientists feel less responsible for global warming, and also show less concern for global warming. These results have substantial implications for the interaction between scientists and the public in general, and for the public discussion of global warming and climate change in particular.

Kemp, R. and T. Oriordan (1991). "Risk Assessment and Communication in a Changing Europe - Introduction." Risk Analysis 11(2): 189-189.
	
Kendall, B. E. (2008). "Personae and Natural Capitalism: Negotiating Politics and Constituencies in a Rhetoric of Sustainability." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(1): 59-77.	This essay critiques natural capitalism, a concept developed as a strategic response to the antagonism of capitalist production and the ideology of sustainability. I trace and critique the second and third personae of the book Natural Capitalism. The second persona of natural capitalism constitutes already dominant capitalists and technocrats as the constituency best prepared to meet the exigencies of sustainability. Simultaneously, civil society and non-propertied classes constitute a marginalized third persona whose interests can be satisfied only if aligned with those of the second persona. This precarious arrangement is possible due to the non-ideological representation of natural capitalism. I argue that such a representation is misleading. Criticism of the tensions between natural capitalism's personae suggests radical potential for environmental rhetoric.

Kendall-Taylor, N. (2012). "Conflicting Models of Mind: Mapping the Gaps Between Expert and Public Understandings of Child Mental Health." Science Communication 34(6): 695-726.	Looking at the issue of child mental health and drawing on theory and methods from anthropology and cognitive linguistics, this study explores the role of cultural models in science translation. In-depth interviews with members of the American public reveal the cultural assumptions that Americans employ in thinking about child mental health, which differ dramatically from the ways scientists explain this topic. The study finds that public understandings of causation shape perceptions of effective solutions on this issue. Findings suggest strategies to translate the science of child mental health and encourage productive thinking of policy solutions to this issue.

Kendall-Taylor, N. and A. Haydon (2016). "Using metaphor to translate the science of resilience and developmental outcomes." Public Understanding of Science 25(5): 576-587.	Developmental scientists have used a variety of linguistic devices to communicate the science of resilience, but their effectiveness at improving understanding and expanding support for evidence-based social policies has not been empirically tested. We describe the process of developing, testing, and refining an Explanatory Metaphor to communicate the science of resilience to the public and policymakers. We argue that public understanding is key to bridging the research-to-practice divide and that communications is a social science endeavor in its own right that requires careful empirical research.

Kennedy, J., et al. (2010). "Public perceptions of the dioxin incident in Irish pork." Journal of Risk Research 13(7): 937-949.	In early December 2008, a global recall of Irish pork was initiated as a result of a subset of the national pork output being contaminated with dioxin. In this study, members of a panel from an Internet-based longitudinal monitor of public opinion on food and health issues were used to assess public perceptions about the dioxin incident in late December. Although most respondents did not regard food as posing a risk to health, a larger proportion of respondents reported that that there was a 'very high' health risk from pork (8.6%) compared to any other food of animal origin. However, when asked to rank the risk posed to human health from a broad range of food and non-food hazards, PCBs/dioxins were considered to pose less of a risk than high fat food, chemical pollution, or tanning. The majority of respondents (70.5%) considered that the authorities managed the incident in an 'adequate' or 'very efficient' manner. Respondents who considered that the authorities' management of the incident was 'incompetent' rated the risk associated with eating Irish pork to be higher than those who considered that the authorities' management was 'very efficient'. Both the European Food Safety Authority and the Irish food safety authorities pronounced that there was no risk to human health from the level of dioxin in the pork. These communications, coupled with the rapid handling of the incident in an open and transparent way, reassured consumers and maintained their confidence in the food supply.

Kent, J. (2003). "Lay experts and the politics of breast implants." Public Understanding of Science 12(4): 403-421.	This paper discusses the controversy around breast implants in the United States and Europe. It focuses on the emergence of consumer and support groups for women and offers an analysis of the role they have played in recent policy developments in UK and Europe. The politics of breast implants is seen as a politics of knowledge in which scientific expertise has consistently been deployed in ways that minimize the credibility and legitimacy of women's accounts of their bodies and illness experiences. These women have been doubly disadvantaged in a policy debate that turns on scientific controversy and uncertainty. This implies a gendered dynamic to the changing relations of knowledge and expertise. The paper contributes to an understanding of the relations between regulators, manufacturers, users, and clinicians in the global medical device industry and to wider debates around the public understanding of science.

Keranen, L. (2005). "Metaphor and knowledge: The challenges of writing science." Science Communication 27(1): 152-155.
	
Kerr, A., et al. (1998). "Drawing the line: an analysis of lay people's discussions about the new genetics." Public Understanding of Science 7(2): 113-133.
	"Where do we draw the line?" is a question that is frequently asked in discussions about the new genetics. In this paper we explore a range of lay people's accounts of drawing the line. We show that, beyond its rhetorical function, answering this question involves important discussions about genetic research, testing, regulation, and social provision for people who are sick or disabled. It raises difficult questions about clients' and service providers' autonomy and responsibility and about which human illnesses, conditions, and characteristics ought to be the subject of research and testing. In particular, we show how differences in the amount and type of information and advice available to clients of genetic testing, the level of social support to people with particular conditions, and people's perception of stigma suffering, and quality of life, make drawing the line highly problematic. We end by discussing the implications of our analysis for policy making, considering how the ambiguities and tensions in lay accounts might enable, as opposed to stifle, greater democratization of the new genetics.

Kerr, A., et al. (1998). "The new genetics and health: mobilizing lay expertise." Public Understanding of Science 7(1): 41-60.	Public understanding of the new genetics is often criticized in discussions about the social and ethical issues the new genetics raise. In this paper we challenge the "deficit model" evident in this dominant discourse, and offer a constructivist approach. We explore lay expertise about the new genetics, presenting an analysis of data from ten focus group discussions with a range of lay people. After distinguishing four different types of knowledge lay people hold-technical, methodological, institutional, and cultural-we go on to consider how lay people's mobilization of this "stock of knowledge" is influenced by social location and social context, exploring in particular interviewees' perceptions of relevancy. We conclude that identifying lay people as expert in, rather than ignorant of, the way genetics may shape their lives is a fundamental first step in moving toward greater lay participation in policy discussions and, ultimately, decision making about the new genetics and health.

Khanna, J. (2001). "Science communication in developing countries - Experience from WHO workshops." Science Communication 23(1): 50-56.	A health reseacher's job is not over until the research findings have been peer reviewed, published, and transmitted to health policymakers and the general public. according to the philosophy of the UNDP/UNFPA/WHO/World Batik Special Programme for Research Development and Research Training in Human Reproduction (HRP) at the World Health Organization. However, researchers are seldom trained to fill these roles, and in developing countries where literacy levels are low and science journalism is not well established, communicating research findings to the general public poses a considerable challenge. This report describes HRP's series of workshops created to correct this dilemma.

Kheifets, L., et al. (2010). "Risk Governance for Mobile Phones, Power Lines, and Other EMF Technologies." Risk Analysis 30(10): 1481-1494.	Power-frequency electric and magnetic fields (EMFs) have been present in industrialized countries since the late 19th century and a considerable amount of knowledge has been accumulated as to potential health effects. The mainstream scientific view is that even if there is a risk, it is unlikely to be of major public-health significance. EMFs from cellular communications and other radio-frequency technologies have increased rapidly in the last decade. This technology is constantly changing, which makes continued research both more urgent and more challenging. While there are no persuasive data suggesting a health risk, research and particularly exposure assessment is still immature. The principal risk-governance issue with power frequencies is how to respond to weak and uncertain scientific evidence that nonetheless causes public concern. For radio-frequency electromagnetic fields, the issue is how to respond to large potential consequences and large public concern where only limited scientific evidence exists. We survey these issues and identify deficits in risk governance. Deficits in problem framing include both overstatement and understatement of the scientific evidence and of the consequences of taking protective measures, limited ability to detect early warnings of risk, and attempted reassurance that has sometimes been counterproductive. Other deficits relate to the limited public involvement mechanisms, and flaws in the identification and evaluation of tradeoffs in the selection of appropriate management strategies. We conclude that risk management of EMFs has certainly not been perfect, but for power frequencies it has evolved and now displays many successful features. Lessons from the power-frequency experience can benefit risk governance of the radio-frequency EMFs and other emerging technologies.

Kiernan, V. (1997). "Ingelfinger, embargoes, and other controls on the dissemination of science news." Science Communication 18(4): 297-319.	Scholarly journals exert considerable influence over how and whether scientists disseminate information about their research through the news media to the general public. Many journals we variants of the ''lngelfinger rule'' to restrain scientists from disclosing research to journalists prior to publication To allow reporters to develop stories before a journal article is printed however many journals distribute advance copies under an embargo system Journal editors argue that these practices foster peer review and more accurate public dissemination of research findings. This article considers whether journal editors may also be using these controls an information flow to enhance the statics of their publications, with an eye toward attracting better scientific papers, expanding circulation, and luring advertising.

Kiernan, V. (1998). "Changing embargoes and the New York Times' coverage of the Journal of the American Medical Association." Science Communication 19(3): 212-221.	A content analysis of coverage by The New York Times of medical research published in The Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) and The New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) in 1989, 1990, and 1991 indicates that coverage of JAMA increased by 50 percent after the journal's publication date was shifted from Friday to Wednesday in April 1990. This result illustrates the effectiveness of embargoed early access to journals as an information subsidy offered to medical and science journalists to attract news coverage of a journal.

Kiernan, V. (2000). "The Mars Meteorite: A case study in controls on dissemination of science news." Public Understanding of Science 9(1): 15-41.	Through interviews with participants and analysis of media reports, this paper reconstructs the preparations for the 1996 announcement of the discovery of evidence of fossilized life in a meteorite from Mars. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) attempted to manipulate the timing and manner of press coverage. Contrary to the stated rationale for embargoes on science news, premature disclosure of the paper in the media resulted in news coverage that was largely accurate.

Kiernan, V. (2003). "Diffusion of news about research." Science Communication 25(1): 3-13.	Analysis of media coverage of articles published in four elite scholarly journals, and the frequency of subsequent citation of those journal articles by other scholars, found evidence of news diffusion of the research to scientists. Breaking news coverage by twenty-four daily newspapers of articles from the Journal of the American Medical Association, Nature, the New England Journal of Medicine, and Science was associated with more frequent citations; coverage by network television was not. Breaking news coverage by the New York Times, when considered with coverage by television and other newspapers, was unrelated to citation rates.

Kiernan, V. (2008). "The Archimedes codex." Science Communication 30(1): 137-138.
	
Kiernan, V. (2016). "Source diversity among journals cited in Science Times." Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 198-206.	A content analysis of The New York Times' Science Times section from 1998 to 2012 found evidence of increased source diversity in use of scientific journals as news sources. Science Times increased the frequency at which it cited journals, the number of different journals that it cited, and the number of disciplines represented by cited journals. The results suggest that online availability of a wide array of scientific journals has changed sourcing behaviors.

Kievik, M., et al. (2012). "The action suited to the word? Use of the framework of risk information seeking to understand risk-related behaviors." Journal of Risk Research 15(2): 131-147.	Although a growing body of risk communication research focuses on how people process risk information, one question that is overlooked is how the seeking of information contributes to behavioral adaptation toward the risk issue. How are people's behavioral responses to risks affected by the search for risk information? Building on the Framework of Risk Information Seeking (FRIS), this paper reports on two studies that focus on the experimental testing of several of the basic FRIS assumptions. In study 1, a 2 (involvement: high vs. low) x 2 (risk perception: high vs. low) between-subjects experiment was conducted to test the assumption that higher levels of involvement and risk perception stimulate the intention to seek additional risk information as well as the actual risk information. Study 2 is a partial replication of study 1. In study 2, a 2 (involvement: high vs. low) x 2 (fear appeal: present vs. absent) x 2 (response efficacy: high vs. low) between-subjects experiment was conducted to test how varying the levels of involvement, risk perception, and response efficacy influence actual and intended information seeking, as well as the intention to adopt risk-mitigating actions. The results showed that the high-involvement, high-risk perception, high-response efficacy group was most likely to actually seek information and make behavioral changes. The results are in accordance with basic FRIS assumptions. Implications for risk communication are discussed.

Kilker, J. (2008). "The World Without Us." Science Communication 30(2): 288-291.
	
Killingsworth, M. J. (2007). "A Phenomenological Perspective on Ethical Duty in Environmental Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(1): 58-63.	This essay deals with the problematic concepts of "crisis'' and "environment.'' Viewing environmental communication as a crisis discipline, while effective in short-term calls to action, creates a long-term rhetorical problem: how do we sustain a sense of crisis over time? The term "environment'' presents a more thoroughgoing problem, the tendency to define human habitat as a mere background, setting, or surrounding for human action. Terms from phenomenology ("lifeworld'') and media studies ("extension'') suggest a more vital relationship between humanity and the earth. Promoting such a relationship is part of the ethical responsibility of environmental communication, which involves finding the language and means of communication to correct and compensate for the human capacity to live virtually or vicariously and lose the connection to natural habitat.

Kim, H. (2014). "Reconstructing the public in old and new governance: A Korean case of nuclear energy policy." Public Understanding of Science 23(3): 268-282.	Korean nuclear energy regulatory policies started to change from earlier exclusively technocratic policies into open dialogues after several anti-nuclear protests in the 1990s. However, technocratic policies still coexist with the new regulatory orientation towards openness, participation and institutional accountability. This paper analyzes Korean nuclear regulatory policies since approximately 2005 as a blend of old and new governance. The aim of the paper is not to decide whether new nuclear governance is deliberative or not by completely reviewing Korean nuclear policies after the 2000s. Instead, it provides an empirical account of how seemingly more participatory processes in decision-making entail new problems while they work with and reproduce social assumptions of different groups of the public.

Kim, H., et al. (2006). "Comparing academic hyperlink structures with journal publishing in Korea - A social network analysis." Science Communication 27(4): 540-564.	This article describes the structure of academic hyperlinks embedded in universities' Web sites hosted in Korea and examines the relationship between the structure of this hyperlink network and the journal publishing of universities. Studying the two phenomena together helps in understanding the changing process of communication created and sustained through traditional and emerging communication media. Four groups with distinctive features were identified. One group (A) was composed of members who had the highest efficiency in terms of the structural whole concept, and they had received the highest number of hyperlinks with other universities. The first group (A) showed high numbers of out-links toward two other groups (C and D). However, one group (C) had a relatively significant number of links to other members in the same group (within-group links), while the other group (D) did not. Analysis confirmed that hyperlink creation and reception correlate with authorship, indicating that expanding one's research identity via hyperlinks might be an indicator of the productiveness of researchers and research institutes.

Kim, H. S. (2007). "A new model for communicative effectiveness of science." Science Communication 28(3): 287-313.	Public engagement with a problem or an issue relative to science (PEP/IS) is suggested as an alternative and complementary model for understanding the communicative effectiveness of science. PEP/IS is conceptualized as the process of individual and collective problem solving in relation to science and exemplified with South Korean exploratory data. Finally, further steps for improving PEP/IS and related research capability are suggested with communicative effectiveness being anticipated.

Kim, H. S. (2012). "Climate change, science and community." Public Understanding of Science 21(3): 268-285.	Climate change offers serious challenges to the effectiveness of science, communication, and community. It demands us to look back upon what we have done in regard to science and technology. In addition, it leads us to examine human efforts invested to solve collective, shared problems by communication and community. The process of behavior per se is found to be greatly overlooked in the establishment sciences, both natural and social, and in both theory and practice. A theory of behavior is introduced and explicated as a platform to solve such commons' problems as climate change. Finally, we find principled ways to improve effectiveness of communication and community by developing human capabilities so that we can win our battle against climate change and other potential tragedies of the commons.

Kim, J. (2009). "Public feeling for science: The Hwang affair and Hwang supporters." Public Understanding of Science 18(6): 670-686.	This ethnography investigates how the twang affair occurred, how Dr. Woo Suk Hwang attracted supporters, and how groups supporting twang evolved. Instead of interpreting twang supporters as abnormal people with psychological problems, this study situates them in concrete, messy, and ambiguous contexts in which they struggle to understand the twang affair. Distrustful of scientific authorities and official institutions, they have linked Korean nationalism with the hopes and dreams of stem cell research, created conspiracy theories to explain twang's fall, and criticized Korean elites. In particular, this paper emphasizes how twang supporters are motivated by admiration of a Korean scientist with humble beginnings (DR. Hwang) the hope of curing disease through stem cell research, and the desire to build an advanced nation through science. In describing this process, I pay attention to how public feeling for science is produced and how it has evolved in the interactions among government, media, and the twang supporters' organizations. In addition, I argue that institutional incompetence deepens public distrust and as a result fuels the formation and activities of twang supporters.

Kim, J. and S. S. Oh (2014). "The virtuous circle in disaster recovery: who returns and stays in town after disaster evacuation?" Journal of Risk Research 17(5): 665-682.	Given the importance of encouraging residents of a disaster-stricken community to remain there during the recovery process, this paper examines the determinants of disaster evacuee decisions to return to their communities, and if they return, to stay in the community where they lived before the disaster. The data come from two panel surveys of Hurricane Katrina survivors. The surveys were taken in 2005, just after Katrina, and again in 2006, a year after the disaster. Although the study sample is not indicative of the pre-Katrina population of New Orleans, it is of great value in allowing us to understand the behaviors of disaster survivors and in helping to design disaster recovery plans. Analytical results show that government performance in initial disaster recovery and individual perceptions of future lives in the community play an important role in evacuees' decisions of whether to stay in the pre-Katrina communities. Race, risk, and damage done are also valid predictors of return decisions. This finding emphasizes the importance of both governmental initial response to the disaster and effective communication of a clear vision toward a fully recovered community.

Kim, J. and H. J. Paek (2009). "Information Processing of Genetically Modified Food Messages Under Different Motives: An Adaptation of the Multiple-Motive Heuristic-Systematic Model." Risk Analysis 29(12): 1793-1806.	Recent risk management research has noted the importance of understanding how the lay public processes and reacts to risk-related information. Guided by the multiple-motive heuristic-systematic model, this study examines (1) how individuals process messages in the context of genetically modified foods to change their attitudes and (2) how the persuasion process varies across types of motives. In the three treatment conditions of accuracy, defense, and impression motives, the respondents changed their attitudes through either the heuristic or the systematic mode, depending on their motives. The accuracy-motive group appeared to use the systematic processing mode, while the impression-motive group seemed to employ the heuristic processing mode. The empirical findings highlight the importance of incorporating motives to improve our understanding of the process of attitude change in risk management and communication contexts.

Kim, K. S. (2011). "Public understanding of the politics of global warming in the news media: the hostile media approach." Public Understanding of Science 20(5): 690-705.	This study uses the politics of global warming in the US to investigate an affective mechanism of hostile media perception and the democratic consequences of such perception, in an effort to delineate audience and journalistic barriers to stimulating urgent concern about climate change. The study confirms that partisanship played a significant role in perceptual differences with regard to media bias in an important area of science journalism-climate change. News consumers' anger perception was tested as a mediator in seeking an affective mechanism of hostile media perception. Hostile media perception has important democratic consequences in that it is positively associated with individuals' trust in news coverage of global warming and with selective media use.

Kim, L. (2013). "Denotation and connotation in public representation: Semantic network analysis of Hwang supporters' internet dialogues." Public Understanding of Science 22(3): 335-350.	This article analyzes the internet discourses of Korean people who supported Hwang Woo Suk despite the disclosure of his scientific misconduct. During the controversial period, those who supported Hwang constructed a narrative of a fallen hero trapped by jealous rivals and an "unjust" society. The supporters' dramatized discourses compete with expert opinions of Seoul National University's Audit Board and prosecutors that investigated the scientific fraud. By introducing and applying an innovative method of semantic network analysis, this study explores how the supporters represent their personal concerns in daily life and latent social problems in South Korea, as well as the failure of science communication. In short, the supporters' internet representations connote concerns in daily life that motivated their sympathy and activism for Hwang.

Kim, S., et al. (2013). "Predictors of Pro-Environmental Behaviors of American and Korean Students: The Application of the Theory of Reasoned Action and Protection Motivation Theory." Science Communication 35(2): 168-188.	This study employs the theory of reasoned action and protection motivation theory to predict American and Korean students' intentions to engage in behaviors that can help mitigate climate change. The results indicate that one's attitudes toward the prevention of climate change, perceived severity of climate change, response efficacy, and self-efficacy regarding climate change prevention were significant predictors of one's intentions to engage in a series of pro-environmental behaviors. In addition, there were few cross-cultural differences. These results suggest that protection motivation theory, together with the theory of reasoned action, is a useful framework for understanding pro-environmental behaviors.

Kim, S. and W. Shin (2017). "Understanding American and Korean Students' Support for Pro-environmental Tax Policy: The Application of the Value-Belief-Norm Theory of Environmentalism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(3): 311-331.	By using the value-belief-norm theory of environmentalism, this study investigates American and Korean college students' support for pro-environmental tax policy as a way to address global climate change. The results indicate that environmental concern and the perceived severity of climate change were significant predictors of one's tax policy support. Perceived individual responsibility for addressing climate change mediated the relationship between environmental beliefs (i.e. environmental concern and perceived severity) and tax policy support for Koreans. Such relationship was not observed among Americans. This study also examines whether political ideology functions as a predictor of tax policy support. For Americans, political ideology was a significant factor in predicting one's tax policy support and that it remained significant even after the inclusion of more proximal predictors environmental concern and perceived severity. For Koreans, however, political ideology was not a significant factor. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed.

Kim, S. H., et al. (2013). "Pathways to support genetically modified (GM) foods in South Korea: Deliberate reasoning, information shortcuts, and the role of formal education." Public Understanding of Science 22(2): 169-184.	Analyzing survey data on the issue of GM foods in South Korea, this study examines two competing routes - deliberate reasoning versus information shortcuts - to forming opinions on controversial science. Findings indicated that both deliberate reasoning and information shortcuts were in play; but the process was moderated by a person's education level. The well educated were more likely than the less educated to engage in deliberate reasoning when shaping their support for GM foods. Implications of the findings are discussed in detail.

Kimmerle, J., et al. (2015). "How Laypeople Understand the Tentativeness of Medical Research News in the Media: An Experimental Study on the Perception of Information About Deep Brain Stimulation." Science Communication 37(2): 173-189.	Medical research findings are often tentative, and people should be able to perceive this. However, the psychological processes underlying this ability are largely unclear. In a laboratory experiment, we found that the following factors had an impact on perception of tentativeness of research findings reported in a newspaper article: (a) the framing of findings, (b) emphasis on the limited reliability of the findings in the article, (c) people's provisional opinion on the topic, and (d) their medicine-related epistemological beliefs. We make recommendations to science journalists to help promote the public understanding of health research and provide suggestions for future studies.

Kinsella, W. J. (2007). "Heidegger and Being at the Hanford Reservation: Standing Reserve, Enframing, and Environmental Communication Theory." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(2): 194-217.	This essay examines the potential of Heidegger's phenomenology as a foundation for environmental communication theory, emphasizing his critiques of modern science, technology, humanism, and metaphysics. A phenomenological approach to environmental communication provides resources for recognizing metaphysical assumptions that endanger both humans and nature. The Hanford nuclear reservation serves as an illustrative text, exemplifying Heidegger's reading of nuclear energy as a culmination of both Western metaphysics and the instrumental stance that he calls "enframing.'' In Heidegger's view, the ordering and control accomplished through enframing obscures the mutually constitutive relationship between humans and nature, and in doing so, diminishes the possibilities for authentic human existence. The chapter examines how both representational and constitutive models of communication contribute to those conditions, and adopts a set of concepts from Heidegger's phenomenology as a foundation for an alternative, "bounded constitutive'' model.

Kinsella, W. J. (2012). "FORUM Communicative Action in Response to a Nuclear Crisis: Representations of Fukushima across Communication Contexts." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(2): 250-250.
	
Kinsella, W. J. (2012). "Environments, Risks, and the Limits of Representation: Examples from Nuclear Energy and Some Implications of Fukushima." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(2): 251-259.	This essay examines examples from the field of nuclear energy, including the 2011 disaster at Fukushima-Daiichi, through perspectives drawn from phenomenology, social systems theory, and constitutive communication theory. The essay argues that although prevailing approaches to nuclear risk analysis and risk communication seek to represent a world of preexisting phenomena, they also fundamentally constitute the world on which decision-makers, organizations, and communities act. Representations of nuclear risk are inevitably and problematically limited, with important implications for policy, practice, and communicative action.

Kinsella, W. J. (2015). "Rearticulating Nuclear Power: Energy Activism and Contested Common Sense." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 346-366.	This essay utilizes the perspective of articulation theory to examine how environmental advocates, public interest organizations, and citizen-consumers have challenged the nuclear industry's expansion efforts, linking strategies at local and global levels. The industry has articulated a material and discursive formation including reactor construction projects, financial and political arrangements, and an overarching narrative of nuclear necessity and inevitability. Opponents have responded by linking organizations, individuals, histories, geographies, and expertise, re-articulating the place of nuclear power in the field of energy choices. This essay examines those opposing articulations in the context of efforts to construct new nuclear power plants in the southeastern USA. There, opponents have challenged state-level regulatory approval of a corporate merger that would facilitate new nuclear construction and financing arrangements that would shift economic risks from the corporation to consumers. These local engagements have broader consequences: in challenging one corporation's nuclear ambitions, opponents also challenge the global industry narrative of nuclear necessity and inevitability.

Kinsella, W. J., et al. (2008). "Narratives, Rhetorical Genres, and Environmental Conflict: Responses to Schwarze's "Environmental Melodrama"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(1): 78-109.	The appearance of Steven Schwarze's essay, "Environmental Melodrama'' (Schwarze, 2006) as the lead article in a recent issue of The Quarterly Journal of Speech marks an important moment of recognition for environmental communication scholarship. Schwarze's essay demonstrates how studies of environmental rhetoric can contribute to rhetorical theory more generally, while addressing practical questions regarding the rhetorical aspects of environmental conflict. The contributors to this forum respond to Schwarze's arguments, drawing in part upon their own case studies of rhetorical action and narrative in environmental conflict.

Kirby, D. A. (2003). "Scientists on the set: science consultants and the communication of science in visual fiction." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 261-278.	By exploring the relationship between the scientific community and the entertainment industry in the construction of fictional films, this paper investigates the impact that fictional representations, created with the assistance of scientists, have on the construction of scientific knowledge and the public understanding of science. I discuss the nature of science consulting on fictional films, including compensation, consultants' role in the filmmaking process, and the scientific elements consultants can impact in the films. By questioning the nature of fictional "accuracy," I demonstrate that the scientific community's focus on "scientific accuracy" in fiction is flawed. Fictional film naturalizes both "accurate" and "inaccurate" science by presenting both as "natural" via a perceptually realistic framework.

Kjaergaard, R. S. (2010). "Making a small country count: nanotechnology in Danish newspapers from 1996 to 2006." Public Understanding of Science 19(1): 80-97.	This article presents the results of a content study of how nanotechnology has been framed in Danish national newspapers by taking a random sample of 250 articles published between 1996 and 2006 from a population of 1,062 articles. The articles were analyzed for "dominant frame" and "dominant tone" with respect to risks and benefits of nanotechnology. The findings demonstrate a remarkable positive tone in the articles with a ratio of ten to one in favor of "benefits outweigh risks" versus "risks outweigh benefits." Using data from this content study the author analyzes patterns of newspaper attention and framing. The data are used in a comparative study to challenge simplistic narratives of general similarities and differences between European and US contexts, making a claim for paying more attention to local cultural and national contexts in studies of media coverage of emerging technologies.

Kjaernes, U. (2006). "Trust and distrust: Cognitive decisions or social relations?" Journal of Risk Research 9(8): 911-932.	The issue of consumer trust has repeatedly been raised in relation to food policy events in Europe over the last couple of decades. Based on the project Consumer Trust in Food' ( funded by the European Commission, contract no. QLK1-CT-200100291), the paper discusses explanations to variations and changes in trust. Representative population surveys were conducted in Denmark, Italy, Germany, Great Britain, Norway, and Portugal. Opinions on trust in food show large and consistent differences across the countries. While trust is high in Great Britain and Scandinavia, levels are generally much lower in Italy, Portugal and Germany. It may seem as if the considerable regulatory and market-based reforms that came in the aftermath of the BSE crisis have had positive impacts on trust. But trust is based even on other issues than food safety, and people are generally more sceptical when it comes to ethical issues, quality or nutrition. It is argued that cognitive models, focussing on individual risk perception and communication, are insufficient to explain these variations. An alternative approach is outlined, where consumer trust is understood with reference to processes of institutionalisation, strongly linked to normative as well as organisational frames. By considering food consumption as the outcome of complex interrelations between consumers, the market, the state, and civil society, we can identify characteristically different types of conditions for trust. Trust seems to refer not only to shared norms and expectations, but also to the concrete organisation and performance of food institutions, regarding predictability, openness, etc. It is a matter of both organisations' capability and willingness to meet expectations. Historical and cultural conditions as well as rapid shifts may lead to discrepancies between expectations and performance-which may be expressed as distrust-politically and in the market. It is therefore suggested that institutionalising consumer distrust may represent an important way of building trust in modern food institutions.

Klauenberg, B. J. and E. K. Vermulen (1994). "Role for Risk Communication in Closing Military Waste Sites." Risk Analysis 14(3): 351-356.	Lessons learned from environmental and occupational hazard risk management practices over the past 30 years have led the Department of Defense to explore alternative risk management approaches. Policies for cleanup of environmentally hazardous waste sites are undergoing examination and are being reframed. A Demonstration Risk Communication Program is described which incorporates principles that integrate risk-based scientific information as well as community values, perceptions, and needs in a democratic process that includes the public as an active participant from the earliest stages. A strong scientific foundation for assessment and characterization of risk is viewed as necessary but not sufficient; the public's values must be actively integrated into the negotiated criteria. The Demonstration Program uses a model to prepare the participants and to guide them through the process. A five-step process is presented: (1) create risk communications process action team including at least one member of the specific site audience; (2) professionally train participants on team dynamics including interpersonal communication skills; (3) train risk communicators to deliver a cogent presentation of the message to secure a decision acceptable to both the government and the public; (4) identify existing biases, perceptions, and values held by all participants; and (5) develop risk message incorporating science and values. The process action team approach assumes the participants enter into the effort with the goal of improved environment and safeguarded public health. The team approach avoids confrontational or adversarial interactions and focuses on a dialogue from which a negotiated team response develops. Central to the program is the recognition that communication is only effective when the dialogue is two-way.

Kleinman, D. L., et al. (2011). "Engaging citizens: The high cost of citizen participation in high technology." Public Understanding of Science 20(2): 221-240.	This paper contributes to ongoing discussions on democratic engagement through an exploration of citizen participation in two citizen consensus conferences on nanotechnology, one held in 2005 and the second in 2008. We analyze the factors that motivate citizens to participate formally in debates about emerging "high technologies" and consider demographic and related characteristics of the participants in these two consensus conferences and the reasons they provided for participating. We suggest that in an era in which the barriers to civic engagement-most especially time-are large for many citizens, significant incentives are likely to affect participation. These incentives may be internal (e. g. a personal interest in a topic or an investment in a policy outcome) or external (e. g. money). In this context, we critique the aim of recruiting "blank slate" participants for consensus conferences and other deliberative democratic forums.

Kleinman, S. S. (2000). "Social identification in a computer-mediated group for women in science and engineering." Science Communication 21(4): 344-366.	Women often face different issues than men when they pursue careers in science and engineering. This care study of a computer-mediated group dedicated to issues concerning women in science and engineering explored how some women in these fields are using computer-mediated groups ns resources for social support, information, role models and mentors. The findings suggest that online groups can be helpful for promoting professional development and satisfaction and that affiliation with an online group can be especially beneficial when a person's face-to-face social network is unavailable or non-existent. A striking finding was the degree to which lurkers derive social identity benefits.

Klemm, C., et al. (2016). "Swine flu and hype: a systematic review of media dramatization of the H1N1 influenza pandemic." Journal of Risk Research 19(1): 1-20.	Highly disconcerting at the time, in retrospective, the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic looks like much ado about nothing. As a consequence, many accused the media of having created an artificial hype or hysteria around the new virus, thus contributing to unwarranted public fear. The current paper set out to examine the validity of such accusations. We integrated empirical findings on whether the media dramatized H1N1 on a global scale through systematically reviewing prior content-analytic studies. We developed a coding scheme specifying three indicators of dramatized media coverage that - together - inform about how mass media coverage about H1N1 may amplify risk perceptions in the public: (a) the volume of media coverage, (b) the media content presented, particularly an overemphasis of threat while neglecting measures of self-protection and (c) the tone of coverage. Results show that media attention was immense, that news content stressed threat over precautionary measures, while the pattern of coverage tonality remained nebulous due to conflicting findings. The present review also revealed a critical gap in existing knowledge about the tone of media coverage on H1N1, and discusses implications for future research on dramatization of public health risks by the media.

Klima, K., et al. (2012). "Public Perceptions of Hurricane Modification." Risk Analysis 32(7): 1194-1206.	If hurricane modification were to become a feasible strategy for potentially reducing hurricane damages, it would likely generate public discourse about whether to support its implementation. To facilitate an informed and constructive discourse, policymakers need to understand how people perceive hurricane modification. Here, we examine Florida residents perceptions of hurricane modification techniques that aim to alter path and wind speed. Following the mental models approach, we conducted a survey study about public perceptions of hurricane modification that was guided by formative interviews on the topic. We report a set of four primary findings. First, hurricane modification was perceived as a relatively ineffective strategy for damage reduction, compared to other strategies for damage reduction. Second, hurricane modification was expected to lead to changes in projected hurricane path, but not necessarily to the successful reduction of projected hurricane strength. Third, more anger was evoked when a hurricane was described as having changed from the initially forecasted path or strength after an attempted modification. Fourth, unlike what we expected, participants who more strongly agreed with statements that recognized the uncertainty inherent in forecasts reported more rather than less anger at scientists across hurricane modification scenarios. If the efficacy of intensity-reduction techniques can be increased, people may be willing to support hurricane modification. However, such an effort would need to be combined with open and honest communications to members of the general public.

Kline, R. R. (1997). "Ideology and the New Deal 'fact film' Power and the Land." Public Understanding of Science 6(1): 19-30.	This paper examines the making of the US government documentary film, Power and the Land (1940), in terms of how views about science and technology are communicated to the public. The paper argues that the film was shaped by a complex ideology of technical progress shared by the film's maker and sponsors (the Rural Electrification Administration; the short-lived US Film Service. headed by the award-winning director, Pare Lorentz; and Joris Ivens, an internationally acclaimed Dutch director and leftist), tensions between goals of producing a 'factual' and 'propagandistic' film, and perceptions of the rural audiences' response. This paper thus argues against the view that science and technology communication is simply the mediated diffusion of knowledge from scientists and engineers to the public (in this case, knowledge about the social and economic aspects of rural electrification) and supports an interactive model. The paper also compares Power and the Land with the better known documentaries by Lorentz, The Plow that Broke the Plains and The River, and with other 'fact films' of the New Deal era that portray a relationship between technology and social change.

Klinke, A. and O. Renn (2012). "Adaptive and integrative governance on risk and uncertainty." Journal of Risk Research 15(3): 273-292.	The article will conceptualize procedural mechanisms and structural configurations of risk governance with adaptive and integrative capacity in a general and comprehensive manner in order to better grasp the dynamics, structures, and functionality of risk-handling processes. Adaptive and integrative risk governance is supposed to address challenges raised by three characteristics that result from a lack of knowledge and/or competing knowledge claims about the risk problem: complexity, scientific uncertainty, and socio-political ambiguity. Adaptive and integrative capacity are broadly seen as the ability of politics and society to collectively design and implement a systematic approach to organizational and policy learning in institutional settings that are conducive to resolve cognitive, evaluative and normative problems, and conflicts of risks. For this purpose, we propose a risk governance model that augments the classical model of risk analysis (risk assessment, management, communication) by including steps of pre-estimation, interdisciplinary risk estimation, risk characterization and evaluation, risk management as well as monitoring and control. This new risk governance model also incorporates expert, stakeholder and public involvement as a core feature in the stage of communication and deliberation. A governance decision tree finally allows a systematic step-by-step procedure for the more inclusive risk-handling process.

Knezevic, I. (2015). "Framing farming: communication strategies for animal rights." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 406-408.
	
Knight, A. J. (2009). "Perceptions, Knowledge and ethical concerns with GM foods and the GM process." Public Understanding of Science 18(2): 177-188.	Compared to their European counterparts, the American public has been characterized as relatively unknowledgeable and indifferent about genetically modified foods. To evaluate these claims, six focus groups were held in three Arkansas cities to: (1) determine the extent of knowledge the public possesses about genetically modified foods; (2) detail perceived benefits and risks associated with agricultural biotechnology applications; and (3) explore lay perceptions about the genetic modification process itself. Participants demonstrated partial knowledge, and tended to overestimate the number of genetically modified foods. However, participants tended to be familiar with debates surrounding benefits, risks and moral issues associated with agricultural biotechnology applications. Findings also showed that while participants were not overly concerned about combining genes between plants, they were concerned about inserting animal genes into plants. If these results are any indication, moral and ethical issues will dominate any discussion of foods derived from a mixture of animal and plant genes.

Knight, C. (2011). ""Most people are simply not designed to eat pasta": evolutionary explanations for obesity in the low-carbohydrate diet movement." Public Understanding of Science 20(5): 706-719.	Low-carbohydrate diets, notably the Atkins Diet, were particularly popular in Britain and North America in the late 1990s and early 2000s. On the basis of a discourse analysis of bestselling low-carbohydrate diet books, I examine and critique genetic and evolutionary explanations for obesity and diabetes as they feature in the low-carbohydrate literature. Low-carbohydrate diet books present two distinct neo-Darwinian explanations of health and body-weight. First, evolutionary nutrition is based on the premise that the human body has adapted to function best on the diet eaten in the Paleolithic era. Second, the thrifty gene theory suggests that feast-or-famine conditions during human evolutionary development naturally selected for people who could store excess energy as body fat for later use. However, the historical narratives and scientific arguments presented in the low-carbohydrate literature are beset with generalisations, inconsistencies and errors. These result, I argue, from the use of the primitive as a discursive "blank slate" onto which to project ideals perceived to be lacking in contemporary industrialised life.

Knight, T. and J. Barnett (2010). "Perceived efficacy and attitudes towards genetic science and science governance." Public Understanding of Science 19(4): 386-402.	Arguments for public involvement in science and technology are often based on ideas of developing a more capable public and the assumed effects this may have for science. However, such a relationship is yet to be sufficiently explored and recent work indicates that a more involved public may have counterintuitive effects. Using nationally representative survey data for the UK and Northern Ireland, the effects of the public's own beliefs about involvement are explored. Developing the concept of "belief in public efficacy," findings suggest those who believe that the public might be able to affect the course of decision making have less approving attitudes towards future applications of genetic science; however, an individual's political efficacy does not significantly influence these attitudes. Furthermore, political efficacy and belief in public efficacy have some distinct and opposing relationships with the principles of governance people prefer. Overall, findings provide support for suggestions that it is simplistic to consider increasing public involvement as a way of increasing the approval of risky new technologies.

Knoblauch, T. A. K., et al. (2018). "Communicating Low-Probability High-Consequence Risk, Uncertainty and Expert Confidence: Induced Seismicity of Deep Geothermal Energy and Shale Gas." Risk Analysis 38(4): 694-709.	Subsurface energy activities entail the risk of induced seismicity including low-probability high-consequence (LPHC) events. For designing respective risk communication, the scientific literature lacks empirical evidence of how the public reacts to different written risk communication formats about such LPHC events and to related uncertainty or expert confidence. This study presents findings from an online experiment (N = 590) that empirically tested the public's responses to risk communication about induced seismicity and to different technology frames, namely deep geothermal energy (DGE) and shale gas (between-subject design). Three incrementally different formats of written risk communication were tested: (i) qualitative, (ii) qualitative and quantitative, and (iii) qualitative and quantitative with risk comparison. Respondents found the latter two the easiest to understand, the most exact, and liked them the most. Adding uncertainty and expert confidence statements made the risk communication less clear, less easy to understand and increased concern. Above all, the technology for which risks are communicated and its acceptance mattered strongly: respondents in the shale gas condition found the identical risk communication less trustworthy and more concerning than in the DGE conditions. They also liked the risk communication overall less. For practitioners in DGE or shale gas projects, the study shows that the public would appreciate efforts in describing LPHC risks with numbers and optionally risk comparisons. However, there seems to be a trade-off between aiming for transparency by disclosing uncertainty and limited expert confidence, and thereby decreasing clarity and increasing concern in the view of the public.

Knobloch-Westerwick, S., et al. (2013). "The Matilda Effect in Science Communication: An Experiment on Gender Bias in Publication Quality Perceptions and Collaboration Interest." Science Communication 35(5): 603-625.	An experiment with 243 young communication scholars tested hypotheses derived from role congruity theory regarding impacts of author gender and gender typing of research topics on perceived quality of scientific publications and collaboration interest. Participants rated conference abstracts ostensibly authored by females or males, with author associations rotated. The abstracts fell into research areas perceived as gender-typed or gender-neutral to ascertain impacts from gender typing of topics. Publications from male authors were associated with greater scientific quality, in particular if the topic was male-typed. Collaboration interest was highest for male authors working on male-typed topics. Respondent sex did not influence these patterns.

Knobloch-Westerwick, S., et al. (2015). "Science Exemplars in the Eye of the Beholder: How Exposure to Online Science Information Affects Attitudes." Science Communication 37(5): 575-601.	Drawing on exemplification theory and confirmation bias, this study examined exposure to online science information and subsequent attitude impacts. Participants freely browsed online messages manipulated to feature (a) either exemplar or numeric information and (b) opposing viewpoints, resulting in a 2 (exemplar vs. numeric) x 2 (supporting vs. opposing technology) within-subjects design. Online search findings pertained to four different topics: fracking, biofuels, genetically modified foods, and nanotechnology. Attitudes toward science topics were measured before and after exposure. Exemplar messages fostered longer reading among high-empathy individuals but less exposure among high-numeracy individuals. Participants preferred attitude-consistent messages, which produced attitude shifts.

Knocke, E. T. and K. N. Kolivras (2007). "Flash flood awareness in southwest Virginia." Risk Analysis 27(1): 155-169.	Flash floods are one of the most dangerous weather-related natural disasters in the world. These events develop less than six hours after a rainfall event and create hazardous situations for people and extensive damage to property. It is critical for flash flood conditions to be warned of in a timely manner to minimize impacts. There is currently a knowledge gap between flood experts and the general public about the level of perceived risk that the latter has toward the powerful flood waters and how events should be warned of, which affects the communication capabilities and efficiency of the warning process. Prior research has addressed risk perception of natural disasters, but there is little emphasis on flash floods within flood-prone regions of the United States. This research utilizes an online survey of 300 respondents to determine the current state of flash flood awareness and preparation in southwest Virginia. Analysis of trends involved the use of chi-squared tests (chi(2)) and simple frequency and percentage calculations. Results reveal that a knowledge base of flash floods does exist, but is not advanced enough for proper awareness. Young adults have a lower understanding and are not as concerned about flood impacts. Increased exposure and perceived risk play a key role in shaping the way a person approaches flash floods. People do monitor flood events, but they are unaware of essential guidance and communication mechanisms. Finally, results suggest that the current method of warning about flash floods is not provided at an appropriate level of detail for effective communication.

Knudsen, S. (2005). "Communicating novel and conventional scientific metaphors: a study of the development of the metaphor of genetic code." Public Understanding of Science 14(4): 373-392.	Metaphors are more popular than ever in the study of scientific reasoning and culture because of their innovative and generative powers. It is assumed, that novel scientific metaphors become more clear and well-defined, as they become more established and conventional within the relevant discourses. But we still need empirical studies of the career of metaphors in scientific discourse and of the communicative strategies identifying a given metaphor as either novel or conventional. This paper presents a case study of the discursive development of the metaphor of "the genetic code" from the introduction of the metaphor to its establishment as an entire network of interrelated conventional metaphors. Not only do the strategies in communicating the metaphor change as the metaphor becomes more established within the discourse, but the genres in which the metaphor is developed and interpreted change too during the career of the metaphor. Whereas the standard scientific article is central in experimentally researching and explaining the metaphor, a mixture of more popular scientific genres dominates in the innovative conceptual development of the metaphor.

Knudsen, S. (2017). "Thinking inside the frame: A framing analysis of the humanities in Danish print news media." Public Understanding of Science 26(8): 908-924.	The humanities, the natural and social sciences all represent advanced and systematic knowledge productionand they all receive public funding for doing so. However, although the field of public understanding of science has been well established for decades, similar research attention has not been directed at the humanities. The purpose of this study is to argue the case for further research of public understanding of the humanities and to take a first step in that direction by presenting a study of the framing of the humanities in Danish print news media. Different framings of the humanities are analyzed. Despite the differences in the issue-specific frames, the generic framing of the humanities shared by most articles is as follows: 75% explicitly frame the humanities as deficit, while the remaining 25% are more neutral. Consequently, if newspapers constitute the only source of information concerning the humanities, newsreaders may not be much wiser in understanding what the humanities might bebut they will know that whatever the humanities is, it is broken and useless.

Knuth, B. A., et al. (2003). "Weighing health benefit and health risk information when consuming sport-caught fish." Risk Analysis 23(6): 1185-1197.	Fish consumers may incur benefits and risks from eating fish. Health advisories issued by states, tribes, and other entities typically include advice about how to limit fish consumption or change other behaviors (e.g., fish cleaning or cooking) to reduce health risks from exposure to contaminants. Eating fish, however, may provide health benefits. Risk communicators and fish consumers have suggested the importance of including risk comparison information, as well as health risk-benefit comparisons in health advisory communications. To improve understanding about how anglers fishing in waters affected by health advisories may respond to such risk-risk or risk-benefit information, we surveyed Lake Ontario (NY, USA) anglers. We interviewed by telephone 4,750 anglers, 2,593 of which had fished Lake Ontario in the past 12 months and were sent a detailed mail questionnaire (1,245 responded). We posed questions varying the magnitude of health risks and health benefits to be gained by fish consumption, and varied the population affected by these risks and benefits (anglers, children, women of childbearing age, and unborn children). Respondents were influenced by health benefit and health risk information. When risks were high, most respondents would eat less fish regardless of the benefit level. When risks were low, the magnitude of change in fish consumption was related to level of benefit. Responses differed depending on the question wording order, that is, whether "risks" were posed before "benefits." For a given risk-benefit level, respondents would give different advice to women of childbearing age versus children, with more conservative advice (eat less fish) provided to women of childbearing age. Respondents appeared to be influenced more strongly by risk-risk comparisons (e.g., risks from other foods vs. risks from fish) than by risk-benefit comparisons (e.g., risks from fish vs. benefits from fish). Risk analysts and risk communicators should improve efforts to include risk-risk and risk-benefit comparisons in communication efforts, and to clarify to whom the health risks and benefits from fish consumption may accrue.

Ko, H. (2016). "In science communication, why does the idea of a public deficit always return? How do the shifting information flows in healthcare affect the deficit model of science communication?" Public Understanding of Science 25(4): 427-432.	The healthcare field contains a multitude of opportunities for science communication. Given the many stakeholders dancing together in a multidirectional tango of communication, we need to ask how much does the deficit model apply to the health field? History dictates that healthcare professionals are the holders of all knowledge, and the patients and other stakeholders are the ones that need the scientific information communicated to them. This essay argues otherwise, in part due to the rise of shared decision-making and patients and other stakeholders acting as partners in healthcare. The traditional deficit model in health held that: (1) doctors were experts and patients were consumers, (2) it is impossible for the public to grasp the many disciplines of knowledge in medicine, (3) if experts have trouble keeping up with medical research then the public surely can't keep up, and (4) it is safer for healthcare professionals to communicate to the public using a deficit model. However, with the rise of partnerships with patients in healthcare decision-making, the deficit model might be weakening. Examples of public participation in healthcare decision-making include: (1) crowd-sourcing public participation in systematic reviews, (2) public participation in health policy, (3) public collaboration in health research, and (4) health consumer groups acting as producers of health information. With the challenges to the deficit model in science communication in health, caution is needed with the increasing role of technology and social media, and how these may affect the legitimacy of healthcare information flows away from the healthcare professional.

Kobayashi, K. (2018). "The Impact of Perceived Scientific and Social Consensus on Scientific Beliefs." Science Communication 40(1): 63-88.	Two studies examined perceptions of scientific and social (social network and public) consensus on scientific issues and their impact on scientific beliefs, using samples of Japanese people. In Study 1 (N = 434), participants' estimates of scientific and social consensus predicted their scientific beliefs independently of each other. In Study 2 (N = 694), the presentation of scientific and public consensus information as an anchor for consensus estimation influenced participants' scientific beliefs through their perceptions of scientific and public consensus. The perceived credibility of scientists had little if any effect on the relationship between perceived scientific consensus and scientific beliefs.

Koh, E. J., et al. (2016). "Mapping Neuroscientists' Perceptions of the Nature and Effects of Public Visibility." Science Communication 38(2): 170-196.	How do neuroscientists make sense of public visibility in the context of their scientific work? Hierarchical cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling analyses of 24 in-depth interviews with U.S. neuroscientists produced word groups and concept maps related to possible medialization processes. Findings suggest that scientists are factoring new communication channels into their public visibility calculus, although one legacy medium, The New York Times, remains the holy grail of medialization.

Kohl, P. A., et al. (2016). "The influence of weight-of-evidence strategies on audience perceptions of (un)certainty when media cover contested science." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 976-991.	Controversy in science news accounts attracts audiences and draws attention to important science issues. But sometimes covering multiple sides of a science issue does the audience a disservice. Counterbalancing a truth claim backed by strong scientific support with a poorly backed argument can unnecessarily heighten audience perceptions of uncertainty. At the same time, journalistic norms often constrain reporters to get both sides of the story even when there is little debate in the scientific community about which truth claim is most valid. In this study, we look at whether highlighting the way in which experts are arrayed across truth claimsa strategy we label weight-of-evidence reportingcan attenuate heightened perceptions of uncertainty that can result from coverage of conflicting claims. The results of our study suggest weight-of-evidence strategies can indeed play a role in reducing some of the uncertainty audiences may perceive when encountering lop-sided truth claims.

Kohring, M. (2012). "The underestimated public: Comment on Lehmkuhl et al. (2012), "Scheduling science on television"." Public Understanding of Science 21(8): 1019-1022.
	
Kohring, M. and J. Matthes (2002). "The face(t)s of biotech in the nineties: how the German press framed modern biotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 11(2): 143-154.	The following article deals with the different images of modern biotechnology created by the German press in the last decade of the twentieth century. To describe these images we have chosen the theoretical concept of framing, which in general denotes the idea that the media deal with certain issues in different ways and that therefore the coverage offers different perspectives to the reader. We understand a frame as a certain pattern of a text that is composed of several different text elements. We assume that some of these text elements group together systematically in a specific way, thereby forming a certain pattern that can be identified across several texts in a sample. These patterns we call frames. By means of cluster analysis we are able to identify not only predefined but also newly emerging frames and the way framing of an issue changes over time. This methodological approach allows us to give a dynamic overview of how the German press dealt with biotechnology in the early and late nineties.

Kola, A. F. (2018). "Scientific Babel: How Science Was Done Before and After Global English." Public Understanding of Science 27(1): 115-115.
	
Kolodziejski, L. R. (2015). "What is Missing? Reflections on the Human-nature Relationship in Maya Lin's Final Memorial." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(4): 428-445.	This article provides an analysis of Maya Lin's final memorial, What is Missing? (WIM), to understand how it rhetorically draws awareness to the material impacts of the nature-culture divide. Lin's memorial argues for preserving the natural world through combining visual, aural, and textual elements and employing locus of the irreparable within an online interface. The combination of these rhetorical strategies, as well as the interaction between form and content, disrupts the human gaze, which frames nature as an object for consumption. WIM also activates mastery-harmony, othering-connection, and exploitation-idealism dialectics to highlight the tension between these opposing perspectives and to create discursive openings for new understandings of the human-nature relationship.

Komduur, R. and H. te Molder (2014). "The role of genes in talking about overweight: An analysis of discourse on genetics, overweight and health risks in relation to nutrigenomics." Public Understanding of Science 23(8): 886-902.	This study examines whether the assumptions embedded in nutrigenomics, especially the alleged relation between information about personal health risks and healthy behaviour, match how people account for the relation between food, health and genes in everyday life. We draw on discourse analysis to study accounts of overweight in six group interviews with people who are and who are not overweight. The results show potentially contradictory normative orientations towards behavioural explanations of (over)weight. Overt gene accounts are interactionally problematic (in contrast to more indirect accounts such as build'), indicating that participants treat behaviour' as the normatively appropriate explanation for overweight. At the same time, however, healthy behaviour is an accountable matter, i.e. it is dealt with in interaction as behaviour that is not self-evidently right but requires an explanation. It is discussed how bringing these interactional concerns to the surface is essential for understanding future users' response to nutrigenomics and emergent technologies more in general.

Konheim, C. S. (1988). "Risk Communication in the Real World." Risk Analysis 8(3): 367-373.
	
Konieczna, M., et al. (2014). "Global Journalism in Decision-Making Moments: A Case Study of Canadian and American Television Coverage of the 2009 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Copenhagen." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(4): 489-507.	Climate change is a phenomenon with global causes but local effects, and thus global climate change decision-making moments provide ideal opportunities to examine how local and global discourses work together-or do not-through global journalism. This case study investigates the globally focused vs. culturally bound frames used in television news coverage, in Canada and the USA, of the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen. Initial quantitative findings that Canadian media used many more culturally bound sources than did American media contradict the past findings and suggest Canadian media engaged less in producing global journalism than did American media. A follow-up qualitative analysis not only found more global framing in the American stories, but also concluded that global sources did not necessarily create global journalism; instead, a global orientation is required.

Konishi, M. (2018). "The Impact of Global NGOs on Japanese Press Coverage of Climate Negotiations: An Analysis of the New "Background Media Strategy" (vol 12, pg 558, 2017)." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(5): 715-715.
	
Konishi, M. (2018). "The Impact of Global NGOs on Japanese Press Coverage of Climate Negotiations: An Analysis of the New "Background Media Strategy"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(4): 558-573.	This article assesses the success of WWF Japan's Background Media Strategy in influencing Japanese mainstream news outlets' coverage of climate change negotiations. WWF Japan adopted this Background Media Strategy after the Bali COP in 2007; instead of lobbying, it aims to build journalists' expertise. This article examines its success after seven years through three research approaches: the analysis of participant lists; two surveys (conducted in 2009 and 2015); and a content analysis of climate change articles that appeared in four large mainstream newspapers between April and July 2015. Based on these different data, the author concludes that the new media strategy was successful: Japanese journalists increasingly rely on information provided by WWF Japan and less on information provided by the government and industry. This experiment suggests that a new relationship between global NGOs and the media can improve environmental communicationsan approach that could help advocacy groups around the world.

Konkes, C. (2018). "Green Lawfare: Environmental Public Interest Litigation and Mediatized Environmental Conflict." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 191-203.	Communication strategies involving news media and environmental groups are well documented and research into protest politics and other forms of environmental communication has made considerable progress in the analysis of the strategies that various actors use to influence environmental policy. There is less scholarship, however, on the journalistic representation of the legal strategies employed by environmental non-government organizations, such as the mediatized debates about the use of law by these groups and the laws themselves. Further, while legal scholarship observes the role of public interest litigation in environmental matters, the role of news media as an influential force in public opinion formation and mobilization in the context of environmental litigation as an activist strategy remains less understood. Using the 2015 green lawfare debate in Australia that followed a successful Australian Federal Court challenge to a coalmine, this paper argues that the mediatized visibility inherent in public interest litigation is an important, but mostly overlooked, element of mediatized environmental conflict.

Koracboisvert, N. and A. Kouzmin (1995). "It Development - Methodology Overload or Crisis." Science Communication 17(1): 57-89.	The overwhelming evidence of contemporary information technology (IT) design failures, or ''soft-core disasters, '' and the dynamic synergy within the IT industry promote an urgency for the adoption of new methodologies that will facilitate design-in-action and promote an organizational ability for ''learning to learn. '' An examination of the various methodologies and management techniques that underlie the IT industry reveals a common strategy of dividing organizational functions into tasks in a ''top-down'' fashion. One engineering analogy, the cybernetic control model, has been a major influence on IT management and design, and it underlies much of the management thinking of the engineer the auditor and, as such, design. The research and development approach is recommended for design-in-action development and an open-ended IT strategy to facilitate an organizational ability for learning to learn.

Kornelis, M., et al. (2007). "Consumer selection of food-safety information sources." Risk Analysis 27(2): 327-335.	The aim of this study is to examine the preferences of consumers for different information sources when they have a question about food safety. On the basis of a nationally representative survey conducted in the Netherlands, five distinct consumer groups are identified that not only differ on the reported use of information sources but also regarding several personality characteristics and sociodemographic variables. The empirical results show that two-thirds of the consumers are selective in their use of information sources and prefer either institutional or social sources. So, multiple information-acquisition patterns exist among the general public. The study illustrates how these findings can help to develop effective risk communication strategies.

Korsmo, F. L. (2004). "Shaping up planet earth - The International Geophysical Year (1957-1958) and communicating science through print and film media." Science Communication 26(2): 162-187.	The U.S. National Academy of Sciences played a major role in preparing for the International Geophysical Year (IGY). The IGY organizers realized the importance of selling U.S. participation in international science and thus began a public relations effort by the mid-1950s that included the production of classroom materials and a film series, called Planet Earth, designed for television. This is the story of their efforts to bring the earth, atmospheric, and oceanic sciences into the classrooms and living rooms of the lay public and attract more students into scientific careers. The lessons they learned still apply today as researchers attempt to sell their science using new media and technologies.

Kortenkamp, K. V. and B. Basten (2015). "Environmental Science in the Media: Effects of Opposing Viewpoints on Risk and Uncertainty Perceptions." Science Communication 37(3): 287-313.	Media reports of environmental science often give equal weight to opposing viewpoints, which can make the science seem more controversial than it actually is. The current study extended the research in this area by examining whether discrediting one expert viewpoint would minimize false perceptions of controversy. Participants (N = 247) read articles about environmental risks containing one viewpoint, two balanced viewpoints, or two viewpoints with one discredited. Results showed that a discredited opposing viewpoint often influenced risk and uncertainty perceptions in similar ways to a balanced opposing viewpoint, implying that this tactic may not necessarily minimize false perceptions of controversy.

Kotcher, J. E., et al. (2017). "Does Engagement in Advocacy Hurt the Credibility of Scientists? Results from a Randomized National Survey Experiment." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(3): 415-429.	It is often assumed that issue advocacy will compromise the credibility of scientists. We conducted a randomized controlled experiment to test public reactions to six different advocacy statements made by a scientist-ranging from a purely informational statement to an endorsement of specific policies. We found that perceived credibility of the communicating scientist was uniformly high in five of the six message conditions, suffering only when he advocated for a specific policy-building more nuclear power plants (although credibility did not suffer when advocating for a different specific policy-carbon dioxide limits at power plants). We also found no significant differences in trust in the broader climate science community between the six message conditions. Our results suggest that climate scientists who wish to engage in certain forms of advocacy have considerable latitude to do so without risking harm to their credibility, or the credibility of the scientific community.

Koteyko, N., et al. (2015). "Climate Change Communication and the Internet: Challenges and Opportunities for Research." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(2): 149-152.
	
Koteyko, N., et al. (2010). "From Carbon Markets to Carbon Morality: Creative Compounds as Framing Devices in Online Discourses on Climate Change Mitigation." Science Communication 32(1): 25-54.	Lexical combinations of at least two roots around "carbon" as the hub, such as "carbon finance" or "carbon footprint," have recently become ubiquitous in English-speaking science, politics, and mass media. They are part of a new language evolving around the issue of climate change that can reveal how it is framed by various stakeholders. In this article, the authors study the role of these "carbon compounds" as tools of communication in different online discourses on climate change mitigation. By combining a quantitative analysis of their occurrences with a qualitative analysis of the contexts in which the compounds were used, the authors identify three clusters of compounds focused on finance, lifestyle, and attitudes and elucidate the communicative purposes to which they were put between the 1990s and the early 21st century. This approach may open up new ways of analyzing the framings of climate change mitigation initiatives in the public sphere.

Krabbenborg, L. and H. A. J. Mulder (2015). "Upstream Public Engagement in Nanotechnology: Constraints and Opportunities." Science Communication 37(4): 452-484.	Upstream public engagement with new science and technology is considered important but challenging. This article shows how engagement events are embedded in broader institutional and cultural contexts. By studying two different cases of upstream engagement in nanotechnology, we demonstrate how existing institutional responsibilities and cultural repertoires contribute much to the productivity of actual engagement events. Insight into these wider world dynamics will help science communicators (or event organizers) foster reflection and deliberation among relevant actors about whether and how upstream public engagement can have an impact on the governance of new science and technology.

Kramer, D. M. and D. C. Cole (2003). "Sustained, intensive engagement to promote health and safety knowledge transfer to and utilization by workplaces." Science Communication 25(1): 56-82.	The need to establish a positive relationship between the. source of the knowledge and the user organization to achieve knowledge utilization is an established principle of knowledge transfer Yet, the process of establishing such a relationship and its impact on knowledge utilization remains relatively unexplored in the field of workplace health and safety. This article describes such a knowledge transfer intervention with three manufacturing workplaces. Using qualitative methods, a knowledge broker documents and evaluates a knowledge transfer intervention and the utilization of a body of research on workplace health and safety. This article explores the issues of intensity, duration, and the interactive nature of positive relationship building and highlights the implications for knowledge transfer on workplace health and safety.

Kramer, D. M. and R. P. Wells (2005). "Achieving buy-in - Building networks to facilitate knowledge transger." Science Communication 26(4): 428-444.	This article offers an overview and an evaluation of the process of transferring a complex body of knowledge from a research institute to workplace parties. It includes practical insights into the "how" of building knowledge transfer networks. It also describes the development of a network-based strategy to transfer knowledge about workplace safety/ergonomics to a group of practitioner-based associations within Ontario's Health & Safety Prevention system. The purpose of the practitioner network was to have them become knowledge brokers of the research linking to multiple workplaces in many different sectors. This strategy, builds on the theoretical frameworks of knowledge transfer and network theory. Through multiple group interactions, the practitioners became familiar with the research, identified matching concepts between the research and their experiences, saw the research as relevant, adopted the principles of the research, and went on to apply it with their client workplaces.

Kraus, N., et al. (1992). "Intuitive Toxicology - Expert and Lay Judgments of Chemical Risks." Risk Analysis 12(2): 215-232.	Human beings have always been intuitive toxicologists, relying on their senses of sight, taste, and smell to detect harmful or unsafe food; water, and air. As we have come to recognize that our senses are not adequate to assess the dangers inherent in exposure to a chemical substance, we have created the sciences of toxicology and risk assessment to perform this function. Yet despite this great effort to overcome the limitations of intuitive toxicology, it has become evident that even our best scientific methods still depend heavily on extrapolations and judgments in order to infer human health risks from animal data. Many observers have acknowledged the inherent subjectivity in the assessment of chemical risks and have indicated a need to examine the subjective or intuitive elements of expert and lay risk judgments. We have begun such an examination by surveying members of the Society of Toxicology and the lay public about basic toxicological concepts, assumptions, and interpretations. Our results demonstrate large differences between toxicologists and laypeople, as well as differences between toxicologists working in industry, academia, and government. In addition, we find that toxicologists are sharply divided in their opinions about the ability to predict a chemical's effect on human health on the basis of animal studies. We argue that these results place the problems of risk communication in a new light. Although the survey identifies misconceptions that experts should clarify for the public, it also suggests that controversies over chemical risks may be fueled as much by limitations of the science of risk assessment and disagreements among experts as by public misconceptions.

Krause, A. and E. P. Bucy (2018). "Interpreting Images of Fracking: How Visual Frames and Standing Attitudes Shape Perceptions of Environmental Risk and Economic Benefit." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(3): 322-343.	The news media's increased reliance on visual communication to illustrate complex processes and promote learning stresses the importance of investigating how visual content impacts the understanding of scientific issues. In this paper, we investigate how members of the public interpret and make sense of differentially framed images of hydraulic fracturing (fracking) depicting environmental risk, economic benefit, or issue protest. For the analysis, a repeated measures online experiment was conducted with 250 participants to evaluate 40 photographs of fracking operations and consequences. Quantitative coding and thematic analysis of open-ended responses to the images reveal that standing attitudes, operationalized as support, opposition, or indecision about fracking, segments viewers into distinct groups and shapes interpretations of environmental risk and economic benefit. Issue opponents are more likely to indicate concern for the environment regardless of frame shown, whereas undecideds and supporters cite the impact on human health more frequently, largely in relation to job site safety. Supporters also see the least ambiguity, and most economic gains, in images about the controversial production practice.

Krause, K. (2017). "A framework for visual communication at Nature." Public Understanding of Science 26(1): 15-24.	The scientific journal Nature, published weekly since 1869, serves as an excellent case study in visual communication. While journals are becoming increasingly specialist, Nature remains firmly multidisciplinary; and unlike many scientific journals, it contains original journalism, opinion pieces, and expert analysis in addition to peer-reviewed research papers. This variety of content types-covering an extensive range of scientific disciplines-translates into a wide and varied audience, and the need to employ an equally wide variety of communication styles. For example, a research paper may employ technical language to communicate to a highly specialized audience in that field, whereas a news story on the same subject will explain the science to an educated lay audience, often adding a wider context and stripping out acronyms. Each type of piece will use a communication approach tailored for its intended audience. This is true for visual content as well: the intended audience of a scientific figure, illustration or data visualization will determine the design approach to that visual. At Nature, given the high volume of content plus high quality standards, this process is applied in a fairly systematic way, using a framework to guide creative decision-making. That framework is described here, along with a discussion of best practices for the design of research figures and graphics by context.

Kreimer, P., et al. (2011). "Popularization by Argentine researchers: the activities and motivations of CONICET scientists." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 37-47.	This paper presents the findings of a survey on popularization activities by 1700 scientists in Argentina. The tool used for this research was a questionnaire containing 21 questions on discipline, age, status in hierarchy, intensity of popularization activity, motives, difficulties and opinions on public issues and science policy. Our analysis of the data shows that patterns of public popularization in Argentina do not substantially differ from those found in two advanced countries, namely France and the United Kingdom. This situation contrasts with the strong differences found in research practices in "central" and "peripheral" countries.

Kreps, G. L. (2012). "Lab Coats in Hollywood: Science, Scientists, and Cinema." Science Communication 34(5): 690-691.
	
Kreuzmair, C., et al. (2016). "High Numerates Count Icons and Low Numerates Process Large Areas in Pictographs: Results of an Eye-Tracking Study." Risk Analysis 36(8): 1599-1614.	In two experiments, we investigated the influence of numeracy on individuals' information processing of pictographs depending on numeracy via an eye-tracker. In two conditions, participants from the general population were presented with a scenario depicting the risk of having cancer and were asked to indicate their perceived risk. The risk level was high (63%) in experiment 1 (N = 70) and low (6%) in experiment 2 (N = 69). In the default condition, participants were free to use their default strategy for information processing. In the guiding-toward-the-number condition, they were prompted to count icons in the pictograph by answering with an explicit number. We used eye-tracking parameters related to the distance between sequential fixations to analyze participants' strategies for processing numerical information. In the default condition, the higher the numeracy was, the shorter the distances traversed in the pictograph were, indicating that participants counted the icons. People lower in numeracy performed increased large-area processing by comparing highlighted and nonhighlighted parts of the pictograph. In the guiding-toward-the-number condition, participants used short distances regardless of their numeracy, supporting the notion that short distances represent counting. Despite the different default processing strategies, participants processed the pictograph with a similar depth and derived similar risk perceptions. The results show that pictographs are beneficial for communicating medical risk. Pictographs make the gist salient by making the part-to-whole relationship visually available, and they facilitate low numerates' non-numeric processing of numerical information. Contemporaneously, pictographs allow high numerates to numerically process and rely on the number depicted in the pictograph.

Kreuzmair, C., et al. (2017). "Are people emotionally aroused by hypothetical medical scenarios in experiments? An eye tracking study with pupil dilation." Journal of Risk Research 20(10): 1308-1319.	Background: Many studies on the communication of medical risks use hypothetical medical scenarios. The results of these scenarios should have sufficient predictive accuracy to be generalized to real life; thus, it is important to know whether hypothetical medical scenarios work and whether there is a relationship between risk level and emotional arousal. Methods: In an eye tracking experiment (N=67), we investigated the influence of a simple hypothetical medical scenario on pupil dilation, a measure of emotional arousal. In this medical scenario, the participants were shown three risk levels (low, middle, and high) and had to estimate the probability that a hypothetical patient has colon cancer. They were also given a non-medical scenario that controlled for changes in illumination and cognitive workload. Therefore, we supposed that the difference in pupil diameter between the medical and the non-medical scenario was due to emotional arousal. Results: We found that our hypothetical medical scenario had a significant effect on pupil diameter. The mean values of the mean pupil diameter in the first fifth of the fixations were higher for all risk levels in the medical scenario than in the non-medical scenario. In a more detailed analysis of the difference in pupil diameters between the two scenarios, we detected that, for the high-risk level, the emotional difference values (between the medical and non-medical scenarios) differed significantly from zero. Furthermore, we found that higher risk levels lead to higher emotional arousal and higher probability estimates. Conclusions: Even simple hypothetical medical scenarios cause emotional arousal. Thus, hypothetical medical scenarios work, and the results of studies not using real patients can be generalized to real medical situations.

Kreuzmair, C., et al. (2017). "Does Iconicity in Pictographs Matter? The Influence of Iconicity and Numeracy on Information Processing, Decision Making, and Liking in an Eye-Tracking Study." Risk Analysis 37(3): 546-556.	Researchers recommend the use of pictographs in medical risk communication to improve people's risk comprehension and decision making. However, it is not yet clear whether the iconicity used in pictographs to convey risk information influences individuals' information processing and comprehension. In an eye-tracking experiment with participants from the general population (N = 188), we examined whether specific types of pictograph icons influence the processing strategy viewers use to extract numerical information. In addition, we examined the effect of iconicity and numeracy on probability estimation, recall, and icon liking. This experiment used a 2 (iconicity: blocks vs. restroom icons)x2 (scenario: medical vs. nonmedical) between-subject design. Numeracy had a significant effect on information processing strategy, but we found no effect of iconicity or scenario. Results indicated that both icon types enabled high and low numerates to use their default way of processing and extracting the gist of the message from the pictorial risk communication format: high numerates counted icons, whereas low numerates used large-area processing. There was no effect of iconicity in the probability estimation. However, people who saw restroom icons had a higher probability of correctly recalling the exact risk level. Iconicity had no effect on icon liking. Although the effects are small, our findings suggest that person-like restroom icons in pictographs seem to have some advantages for risk communication. Specifically, in nonpersonalized prevention brochures, person-like restroom icons may maintain reader motivation for processing the risk information.

Krewski, D., et al. (2012). "Expert vs. public perception of population health risks in Canada." Journal of Risk Research 15(6): 601-625.	In the field of risk analysis, there is ongoing tension between expert risk assessment and public risk perception. This paper presents the results of a health risk perception survey administered to Canadian health experts as a follow-up to a previous survey. A total of 125 experts (75 physicians and 50 toxicologists) recruited through professional organizations completed a self-administered questionnaire in 2004. Experts were asked to provide ratings of perceived risk of 30 health hazards as well as detailed ratings of five health hazards (motor vehicles, climate change, recreational physical activity, cellular phones, and terrorism) and five health outcomes (cancer, long-term disabilities, asthma, heart disease, and depression) in terms of perceived health risk, personal control, knowledge, uncertainty, worry, and acceptability. Sources of information on health risks, confidence in those information sources, as well as health risk beliefs were also examined. Experts perceived behavioral health hazards, such as cigarette smoking, obesity, and physical inactivity, posed the greatest health risk, and medical technologies, including vaccines, medical X-rays, and laser eye surgery, posed the least risk. Experts reported receiving 'a lot' of information from university scientists/scientific journals and medical doctors and reported having 'a lot' of confidence in those sources. High levels of environmental and social concern were observed, as well as a high degree of personal agency over health risks. Health risk perceptions varied by professional affiliation but not gender. Results are compared to a recent public risk perception survey in Canada. Differences between public and expert risk perceptions may hold instructive pointers for risk management and risk communication strategies designed to improve population health.

Kroepsch, A. (2016). "New rig on the block: spatial policy discourse and the new suburban geography of energy production on Colorado's Front Range." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(3): 337-351.	Drawing from the Critical Discourse Analysis and Cultural Sociology of Space frameworks, this empirical analysis explores the discursive struggle between stakeholders of divergent viewpoints as they respond to the newfound spatial proximity of oil and gas extraction to homes and schools in suburban residential areas on Colorado's northern Front Range. Through an analysis of media, policy-making, and neighborhood meeting discourse, this study examines the social construction of space through policy narratives and regional debates about the American West's relationship to extractive industries. Results reveal that the discursive struggle over suburban drilling hinges upon the question of whether industrial activities belong in residential areas and is carried out through competing policy narratives that invoke differing (spatial versus aspatial) policy solutions. The deliberative quality of these policy narratives is constrained by existing spatial policy practices and further constrains democratic engagement.

Kroepsch, A., et al. (2018). "Remembering the Past, Anticipating the Future: Community Learning and Adaptation Discourse in Media Commemorations of Catastrophic Wildfires in Colorado." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(1): 132-147.	Wildfire may be the clearest example to date of a socio-natural hazard that is being exacerbated by climate change, making wildfire an essential lens through which to investigate learning and adaptation in the Anthropocene. Here, we study discourse about simultaneous and recurring catastrophic wildfires in Colorado newspapers. We find that the wildfires' anniversaries served as opportunities for critical reflection on hazard causality and mitigation in local media, particularly the first anniversary and especially for a community that experienced two catastrophic wildfires in a row. Two mediated prospective memory practicesinvoking hindsight as foresight and recognizing a new normalcontributed to this discourse. However, learning and adaptation discourse faded in local media at later anniversaries. These findings contribute to learning and adaptation scholarship by connecting the concept of mediated prospective memory to disaster-related media studies and attending to the intricacies of anniversary commemoration under circumstances of simultaneous and recurring disasters.

Kroll, G. (2001). "The "Silent Springs" of Rachel Carson: mass media and the origins of modern environmentalism." Public Understanding of Science 10(4): 403-420.	This essay explores the different meanings of the 1960s' pesticide controversy as conveyed by the multiple representations of Rachel Carson's Silent Spring (1962). I argue that to understand the impact of Carson's work on a heterogeneous audience in the early '60s, we must move beyond an examination of the book, Silent Spring, to consider its other media manifestations, as a serialization for The New Yorker and as a television expose for "CBS Reports." Each conveyed a unique message stylized for the audience of that particular media. This analysis demonstrates the problems and opportunities for scholars attempting to gauge the influence of a book on the public understanding of science. This argument also suggests that to understand the transition of environmentalism from a grass-roots movement to near universal consensus, we need to examine carefully the role of media in shaping divergent messages for different audiences-a phenomenon that assisted in transforming local environmental issues into a matter of national concern.

Kronberger, N. (2012). "Synthetic biology: taking a look at a field in the making." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 130-133.
	
Kronberger, N., et al. (2012). "Consequences of media information uptake and deliberation: focus groups' symbolic coping with synthetic biology." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 174-187.	Whenever a new, potentially controversial technology enters public awareness, stakeholders suggest that education and public engagement are needed to ensure public support. Both theoretical and empirical analyses suggest, however, that more information and more deliberation per se will not make people more supportive. Rather, taking into account the functions of public sense-making processes, attitude polarisation is to be expected. In a real-world experiment, this study on synthetic biology investigated the effect of information uptake and deliberation on opinion certainty and opinion valence in natural groups. The results suggest (a) that biotechnology represents an important anchor for sense-making processes of synthetic biology, (b) that real-world information uptake and deliberation make people feel more certain about their opinions, and (c) that group attitudes are likely to polarise over the course of deliberation if the issue is important to the groups.

Kronberger, N., et al. (2014). "How Natural Is "More Natural"? The Role of Method, Type of Transfer, and Familiarity for Public Perceptions of Cisgenic and Transgenic Modification." Science Communication 36(1): 106-130.	A frequent expert assumption is that the public will consider cisgenics more natural and therefore more acceptable than transgenics. Experimental (Studies 1 and 2) and representative survey (Eurobarometer) data highlight that public concerns indeed are stronger when the boundaries of species are crossed. However, genetic combinations that could come into existence naturally are not always considered unproblematic. Human intervention in the process amplifies concern while familiarity with the method and its products explains little of the variance. Although cisgenics is more supported than transgenics, a majority of respondents across countries considers cisgenic products to be genetically modified food that must be labeled.

Krosnick, J. A., et al. (2000). "The impact of the fall 1997 debate about global warming on American public opinion." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 239-260.	Although global warming has been the subject of some public discussion since the turn of the 20(th) Century, it was pushed into the national spotlight during the fall of 1997, when President Bill Clinton's administration instigated a campaign to build public support for the Kyoto treaty. To examine the effect of this campaign and the debate it sparked, vie conducted two national surveys, one immediately before and the other immediately after the campaign. We addressed three questions: (1) What were Americans' beliefs and attitudes about global warming before the debate? (2) Did the debate catch the public's attention? and (3) Did the debate change people's beliefs and attitudes about global warming? We found that a majority Of the American general public and of the global warming "issue public" endorsed the views advocated by President Clinton before the media campaign began. The debate did attract people's attention and strengthened the public's beliefs and attitudes. The debate produced almost no changes in public opinion when the nation's population is lumped together. But beneath this apparently calm surface, strong Democrats came to endorse the positions advocated by the Clinton administration, while strong Republicans were less inclined to endorse the administration's views.

Kruvand, M. (2012). ""Dr. Soundbite": The Making of an Expert Source in Science and Medical Stories." Science Communication 34(5): 566-591.	Bioethicists have been increasingly used as expert sources in science and medical stories involving ethical issues. This case study examines how and why one bioethicist, Dr. Arthur L. Caplan, has become so ubiquitous. Organizational news routines provide the theoretical framework for a newspaper content analysis and interviews. As part of journalists' small roster of trusted experts, Caplan has been the de facto bioethics representative for two decades, helping shape media discourse on bioethical issues. Caplan understands news routines, provides pithy quotes, and supports public engagement. Critics worry, however, that news consumers may conflate Caplan's opinions with "the" ethical position.

Kruvand, M. and S. Hwang (2007). "From revered to reviled - A cross-cultural narrative analysis of the South Korean cloning scandal." Science Communication 29(2): 177-197.	A South Korean scientist who claimed to clone the first human embryos went from national hero to international disgrace in 23 months after his research proved to have been falsified. Guided by narrative theory, this cross-cultural narrative analysis examines news coverage of key milestones in the scandal in The New York Times and Chosunilbo, South Korea's largest newspaper. Significant disparities are found in the way the narratives are told in the two newspapers due to cultural, social, political, and religious differences between the two countries. The analysis provides an interpretive perspective of the way in which narrative helps construct the social reality of stem cell research in two distinct societies.

Kua, E., et al. (2004). "Science in the news: a study of reporting genomics." Public Understanding of Science 13(3): 309-322.	Scientists and academicians in the field of science writing agree that context and method are important components of research to be reported. This ideal is balanced by science journalists who try to relay findings with a minimum of complex and potentially confusing facts. Here, a specific report on genomics is traced from its original source in a scientific journal through to popular press publications. These data were examined in the context of previously published findings that have shown that the reader needs a clear understanding of the context of reported results to make an informed judgment about their meaning. This study reveals that these five reports, ranging from research article to popular press news article, differ in what is said rather than how it is said. This is surprising given the premise that in science reporting, the primary role of the journalist is to translate science into non-scientific language.

Kuang, K. and H. Cho (2016). "Delivering vaccination messages via interactive channels: examining the interaction among threat, response efficacy, and interactivity in risk communication." Journal of Risk Research 19(4): 476-495.	New media-based interactive risk communication has gained increasing attention and importance. While extant research has focused on the main effects of interactivity on attitudinal and behavioral outcomes, little research has investigated how risk message content may interact with risk message modality such as interactivity in generating effects, or the psychological processes underlying it. In this study, we examined the interaction effect of interactivity, threat, and response efficacy on individuals' involvement with risk message, attitudes toward vaccination, and information seeking intention in the context of meningococcal vaccination through a 2 (interactivity: low, high)x2 (threat: low, high)x2 (response efficacy: low, high) experiment. Results indicated a significant three-way interaction among interactivity, threat, and response efficacy on message involvement: individuals with high-threat, high-response efficacy perceptions were more involved with the message when it was presented in a more interactive modality. With high-threat, low-response efficacy, the interactive modality of the message did not influence levels of message involvement. Furthermore, message involvement mediated the effect of the three-way interaction among threat, response efficacy, and interaction on information seeking intentions. Implications for future research and practice are discussed.

Kuchinskaya, O. (2011). "Articulating the signs of danger: Lay experiences of post-Chernobyl radiation risks and effects." Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 405-421.	This essay examines lay experiences of radiation-the hazard imperceptible with unaided senses-and how these experiences are shaped. Analysis is conducted on the basis of participant observation and interviews in Belarusian rural areas affected after the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear accident. I argue that radiation risks and health effects are not always obvious or immediately observable for those experiencing them, and they should be articulated. The paper compares various opportunities for articulation, including the context of radiological testing and administrative contexts, and describes the kinds of articulations they make possible. I conclude that limited opportunities for articulation result in limited lay recognition of radioactive contamination and their own health effects. The analysis implies that affected lay populations cannot always be assumed to be the most risk-conscious and hold special knowledge about radiation effects independently of scientific and administrative definitions of it.

Kuchinskaya, O. (2018). "Connecting the Dots: Public Engagement with Environmental Data." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(4): 495-506.	Air pollution and other environmental hazards are often imperceptible and need to be made publicly visible. The paper argues for the importance of visualizations in drawing public attention to imperceptible hazards and in providing the public with access to empirical data describing the risks. It also argues for critical inquiry into hazards' selective visibility as it is produced by visualizations. The impact of visualizations and their selective visibility are considered through the example of a public art project called Particle Falls installed in 2014 in Pittsburgh, a city with a long history of both ignoring air pollution and working to ameliorate this problem. I examine the impact and selective visibility of Particle Falls by considering the underlying production of data, as well as context and support systems for this visualization, and by comparing it with other visualizations of local air quality.

Kunreuther, H. (2002). "Risk analysis and risk management in an uncertain world." Risk Analysis 22(4): 655-664.	The tragic attacks of September 11 and the bioterrorist threats with respect to anthrax that followed have raised a set of issues regarding how we deal with events where there is considerable ambiguity and uncertainty about the likelihood of their occurrence and their potential consequences. This paper discusses how one can link the tools of risk assessment and our knowledge of risk perception to develop risk management options for dealing with extreme events. In particular, it suggests ways that the members of the Society for Risk Analysis can apply their expertise and talent to the risks associated with terrorism and discusses the changing roles of the public and private sectors in dealing with extreme events.

Kuppers, P. (2008). "Dancing Stories: A Community Dance Residency in a Hospice in New Zealand." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(3): 274-280.	Canoes forging through cold waters, mountains rising from the sea, a heart beating under a mountain lake, an albatross sailing toward the Antarctic: these were the story-images of Coastal Mappings, a large-scale community project set in and around Dunedin, New Zealand. In the Coastal Mappings performance project, people in the last months of their lives joined cancer survivors, family members and other interested people in explorations of Pakeha myths (by European-settler descendents) and Maori myths (by descendents of the crews of the first canoes, first inhabitants of New Zealand). Together, we created personal landscapes through movement, storytelling, photography and video. In this essay, I discuss some of the opportunities, challenges and experiences of leading a community dance project in an intercultural social environment, and with people whose relationship to their environment is different from mine.

Kurath, M. and P. Gisler (2009). "Informing, involving or engaging? Science communication, in the ages of atom-, bio- and nanotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 18(5): 559-573.	Science communication has shifted considerably in Europe over the last decades. Three technology controversies on atoms, genes, and nanoscale sciences and nanotechnologies (NST) turned the style of communication from one-way information, participation and dialogues to the idea of an early and more democratic engagement of the public. Analyzing science communication developing over the three controversies, this article shows that what happened in one technology field fed forward to and contributed to shaping the subsequent field and that communication was initiated at a progressively earlier stage of technology development. The article concludes with an empirical analysis of six public engagement projects in NST, saying that the shift towards more democratic engagement of the public hasn't been as profound and complete as has been thought. This is particularly due to the continuing adoption of a simplistic contrast structure that opposes science and the public as two self-contained, antagonistic social entities.

Kurian, P. and J. Wright (2012). "Science, governance, and public participation: An analysis of decision making on genetic modification in Aotearoa/New Zealand." Public Understanding of Science 21(4): 447-464.	The acceptance of public participation in science and technology governance in liberal democratic contexts is evident in the institutionalization of a variety of mechanisms for participation in recent decades. Yet questions remain about the extent to which institutions have actually transformed their policy practice to embrace democratic governance of techno-scientific decision making. A critical discourse analysis of the response to public participation by the Environmental Risk Management Authority (ERMA), the key decision-making body on genetic modification in Aotearoa/New Zealand, in a specific case demonstrates that ERMA systematically marginalized concerns raised by the public about risk management, ethics, and ecological, economic, and cultural issues in order to give primacy to a positivist, technological worldview. Such delegitimization of public perspectives pre-empts the possibility of the democratic governance of science.

Kusumi, T., et al. (2017). "Risk Perception and Risk Talk: The Case of the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Radiation Risk." Risk Analysis 37(12): 2305-2320.	Individuals' perceptions and their interpersonal communication about a risk event, or risk talk, can play a significant role in the formation of societal responses to the risk event. As they formulate their risk opinions and speak to others, risk information can circulate through their social networks and contribute to the construction of their risk information environment. In the present study, Japanese citizens' risk perception and risk talk were examined in the context of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear radiation risk. We hypothesized and found that the risk information environment and risk literacy (i.e., competencies to understand and use risk information) interact to influence their risk perception and risk talk. In particular, risk literacy tends to stabilize people's risk perceptions and their risk communications. Nevertheless, there were some subtle differences between risk perception and communication, suggesting the importance of further examination of interpersonal risk communication and its role in the societal responses to risk events.

Kuttschreuter, M. (2006). "Psychological determinants of reactions to food risk messages." Risk Analysis 26(4): 1045-1057.	In recent years, European countries have witnessed a number of food crises such as dioxin-contaminated chicken, foot-and-mouth disease, and BSE. In such cases, food might be contaminated by microorganisms or chemicals that could pose a risk to the consumer. These cases attract media attention and might instigate the consumer to reduce the consumption of the allegedly contaminated products. Although a decline in consumption of (potentially) contaminated products has been observed, it is not yet clear what determines the individual's reaction to food risk messages. To study the psychological determinants of the reaction to food risk messages, a survey was conducted in the Netherlands (n = 280). Subjects had to imagine two situations involving chicken contamination and report how they would react behaviorally if this situation occurred. Risk perception, affective response, perceived susceptibility to foodborne disease, self-efficacy, outcome expectation, trust, experience with foodborne disease, and need for information were also assessed. It was found that 60% of the subjects would allegedly avoid the risks by not consuming chicken for a while and approximately 60% would seek additional information. Risk avoidance was significantly related to information seeking and the psychological determinants, especially risk perception, affective response, need for information, perceived susceptibility to foodborne disease, and trust. Seeking information was also significantly related to risk perception, affective response, need for information, susceptibility to foodborne disease, and trust, but to a lesser degree. A model describing the relationships between the variables was tested using AMOS. Results are presented and implications are discussed.

Kuttschreuter, M. and J. M. Gutteling (2004). "Experience-based processing of risk information: the case of the millennium bug." Journal of Risk Research 7(1): 3-16.	This article focuses on the role of experience in the processing of risk information. With a written questionnaire, completed by 286 subjects in The Netherlands, risk perceptions, mitigating behaviour, and information processing were studied concerning the millennium bug risk that was assumed would crash computers all over the world at midnight I January 2000. These variables were related to the level of computer expertise. Results indicated that in the spring of 1999 on average the subjects did not worry much about this risk, and had not taken many precautionary measures either. It appeared to be relevant to distinguish three groups of subjects based on the level of computer experience: (a) nonusers, (b) average users, and (c) 'experts'. From the risk perception perspective, the average users experienced most problems. They perceived the probability of occurrence of the millennium risk the highest, perceived their personal risk as high, and worried most about it. Furthermore, their levels of self-efficacy and outcome expectancy were low. These characteristics are often associated with anxious people. Nonusers and 'experts' differed remarkably from average users in these respects. The groups also differed in the gathering of information concerning the millennium risk. Results indicated that computer expertise might have played an intermediating role: influencing information gathering as well as risk perceptions and mitigating behaviour. It is assumed that computer expertise offered a frame of reference, which enabled a critical evaluation of the available information on the millennium problem.

Kvidal-Rovik, T. (2018). "Nature Articulations in Norwegian Advertising Discourse: A Depoliticized Discourse of Climate Change." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(6): 794-806.	This article deals with how nature is articulated in public discourse and more specifically how humans' relationship to nature is constructed via such articulations. Based on critical cultural analyses of ads presented in a Norwegian context, the article claims articulations of nature serve to a depoliticization of nature, which silence social differences and reduce environmental politics to individual moral action. Several rhetorical patterns of particular relevance to the articulation of nature are discussed, pointing out how disparate, sometimes conflicting, understandings of nature are rhetorically configured and aligned in ways that benefit a global market economy. There is a discursive distancing of nature and everyday life, even as nature remains valorized and very much central to national identity. This constrains citizens' political engagement and undermines understandings of how to govern nature.

Kyvik, S. (2005). "Popular science publishing a nid contributions to public discourse among university faculty." Science Communication 26(3): 288-311.	This article explores the roles of university faculty as popularizers of research and as public intellectuals contributing to public discourse through publishing articles for a lay public. Mail surveys undertaken in 1992 and 2001 among faculty members at Norwegian universities show that academic staff in the humanities and social sciences published more popular scientific articles and contributed more to public debate than their fellow colleagues in the natural and medical sciences and technology. Prolific scientists were more active in publishing for a lay public than less productive faculty members, and a small number of academic staff accounted for a disproportionate number of articles.

Kyvik, S. and I. M. Larsen (1997). "The exchange of knowledge - A small country in the International Research Community." Science Communication 18(3): 238-264.	This article explores in what ways and to what extent a small country is integrated in international science. It gives an overview of various types of contact between academic staff members at Norwegian universities and their colleagues abroad, including which countries are the most important for such contact, and shows to what degree faculty members in different fields of learning publish internationally Faculty members in the social sciences and humanities have almost as many close contacts with foreign researchers as do their colleagues in the natural and physical sciences, but the extent of international publishing is considerably lower in the humanities and social sciences. The reasons for these field differences are discussed.

Laberge, Y. (2015). "The culture of science: How the public relates to science across the globe." Public Understanding of Science 24(7): 893-894.
	
Laberge, Y. (2015). "Science in print: Essays on the history of science and the culture of print." Public Understanding of Science 24(7): 893-894.
	
Laberge, Y. (2015). "Science from sight to insight: How scientists illustrate meaning." Public Understanding of Science 24(7): 893-894.
	
Laberge, Y. (2016). "New media and social networks." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 1017-1019.
	
Lach, D. and S. Sanford (2010). "Public understanding of science and technology embedded in complex institutional settings." Public Understanding of Science 19(2): 130-146.	We use a constructivist analysis to describe how citizens learn and integrate highly technical scientific information about a new technology (bioremediation) within the context of a risk-based relationship with a federal agency in their own backyards. We engaged members of the general public in a workshop process where they produced a consensus report that describes how bioremediation works, characterizes the scientific issues not yet addressed, and sets the problem within the context of institutional arrangements for the production of knowledge. On the basis of their social roles in their communities, they applied new knowledge to their own experiences and worked at ways to translate their understanding of the technology into information that could be used in their multiple roles as learners in the workshop, as well as citizens and family members outside the workshop.

Lachlan, K. and P. R. Spence (2010). "Communicating Risks: Examining Hazard and Outrage in Multiple Contexts." Risk Analysis 30(12): 1872-1886.	This article examines the heuristic value of a model of risk communication outlined by Peter Sandman. It tests and expands the proposed constructs and seeks to establish a measurement model. Results in the first laboratory study indicated congruence between the model and data, while the second demonstrated the capacity for manipulation of the constructs. A field study then extended the measurement model in both scope and usefulness by demonstrating its utility in an applied setting. Descriptive analyses indicate differences in perceptions of risk on the basis of sex and race. Implications for the use of the model are discussed.

Lacroix, E. M. (2001). "How consumers are gathering information from MEDLINEplus." Science Communication 22(3): 283-291.	The National Library of Medicine (NLM) introduced MEDLINEplus in October 1998 to help consumers and those who serve them find authoritative, understandable health information on the Internet. MEDLINEplus was designed to be a well-organized, selective Web resource that directs consumers to full-text health information available from NLM, the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and other reliable sources. From the beginning is has been consumer driven; that is, information obtained from studying actual searches done by the public using other NLM Internat resources was used to set priorities for MEDLINEplus. This article summarizes findings from NLM's studies of use data, Web log files, and formal evaluation that help characterize consumers' needs for information. How these findings have been used to improve the interface, functionality, and content of MEDLINEplus will also be described.

Ladle, R. J. and L. Gillson (2009). "The (im)balance of nature: a public perception time-lag?" Public Understanding of Science 18(2): 229-242.	The last two decades have seen a conceptual shift within environmental and social sciences from an emphasis on ecosystem stability and balance to an acknowledgement of the importance of flux and change in the natural world. This has profound implications for conservation management and policy and has driven an (incomplete) transition from managing to maintain (bio)diversity and ecological stability at some historically derived "optimum" to managing to maintain important ecosystem and evolutionary processes such as nutrient cycles and migration. Here, we investigate whether this change from a "balance of nature" metaphor to a more dynamic perspective ("flux of nature") is reflected in the representation of conservation and ecosystem management in the news media, the Internet, and the academic literature. We found that the media and the global Internet community still portray the aim of conservation science and of conservationists as being one of maintaining stability, harmony and balance.

Laestadius, L. I., et al. (2016). "No Meat, Less Meat, or Better Meat: Understanding NGO Messaging Choices Intended to Alter Meat Consumption in Light of Climate Change." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(1): 84-103.	This paper examines the factors shaping non-governmental organization (NGO) messaging decisions on how meat consumption should be altered in light of climate change. In particular, we sought to understand the relative absence of messages promoting meat-free diets and the decision of some NGOs to pair meat reduction messages with messages encouraging consumers to switch to meat from ruminant grass-fed animals. Interviews were conducted with 27 staff members from environmental, food-focused, and animal protection NGOs from the USA, Canada, and Sweden. While strategic considerations consistently led to the use of modest messages for meat reduction, NGO missions were also key to shaping the specifics of messaging goals. The relatively low personal comfort levels that some NGO staffers held toward meat-free diets also led to the use of more modest requests for meat reduction. Findings highlight the complex nature of the factors underlying the environmental communication messages of NGOs.

Laferriere, K. A., et al. (2016). "Examining inequities in children's environmental health: results of a survey on the risk perceptions and protective actions of new mothers." Journal of Risk Research 19(3): 271-287.	Young children are more highly exposed and vulnerable to environmental health hazards than adults due to a variety of physiological and behavioural factors. Despite the significant responsibility mothers typically bear in managing their children's health, little is known about how they perceive and negotiate these risks in their day-to-day lives. To better understand mothers' environmental health risk perceptions and associated protective actions across socio-economic and geographic contexts, a telephone survey was conducted among new mothers (n=606) recruited through two Public Health Units in Ontario, Canada. Analyses revealed that approximately half of the respondents were moderately or highly concerned about environmental health risks, ranging in nature from household products to outdoor air contaminants. Factors affecting the likelihood of experiencing concern included lower income and lower levels of perceived control. With regard to protective actions, 43% reported taking three or more actions to reduce environmental health risks to their children, with the likelihood of taking action being negatively affected by factors including low income and first language other than English or French, and positively affected by being a first-time parent (primiparous). This study contributes to our understanding of environmental health risk perceptions and associated protective behaviours among new mothers, and has implications for the development of more context-focused risk management and communication strategies.

Lafollette, M. (1995). "The Beast without and Within." Science Communication 17(2): 115-118.
	
Lafollette, M. C. (1994). "Measuring Equity - the United-States General Accounting Office Study of Peer-Review." Science Communication 16(2): 211-220.
	
Lafollette, M. C. (1994). "Reflections on Being Connected - a Historical Note." Science Communication 16(2): 131-131.
	
Lafollette, M. C. (1994). "Changing Our Name, Adding New Voices, Renewing Responsibility - Science Communication." Science Communication 16(1): 3-10.
	
LaFollette, M. C. (1996). "Science education and the obligation to the next generation." Science Communication 17(4): 395-397.
	
LaFollette, M. C. (1997). "Editorial: An accelerated rate of change - ''Popularized'' science." Science Communication 18(4): 291-296.
	
LaFollette, M. C. (1997). "Editorial: An accelerated rate of change - Journal publishing." Science Communication 18(3): 187-193.
	
LaFollette, M. C. (1998). "The transforming political landscape for science communication - Challenges for the future." Science Communication 20(1): 5-13.	In an overview of a special issue celebrating Science Communication's twentieth year; the editor describes themes common to all the essays and outlines a research agenda flowing from them The essay suggests how social science research might assist in understanding the changing political environment for science communication efforts.

LaFollette, M. C. (1998). "Thanking anonymous donors." Science Communication 19(3): 179-180.
	
LaFollette, M. C. (2002). "A survey of science content in US television broadcasting, 1940s through 1950s - The exploratory years." Science Communication 24(1): 34-71.	On U.S. network television in the 1940s and 1950s, pioneering broadcasters such as Roy K. Marshall, Lynn Poole, and Don Herbert demonstrated that serious science programs could also be entertaining. Developers of early science series embraced television's ability to dramatize. They also mixed facts and fictions, combining real film footage of scientists with scientific explanations from animated cartoon characters, as in the specials underwritten by the Bell Telephone System. This survey examines the science content of early television broadcasting in the United States and the role played by key individuals, associations, and corporations in the development of innovative programming. It also considers the extent to which these programs and techniques were harbingers of trends observable in popular science communication today and identifies a number of topics deserving more research by historians of science communication.

LaFollette, M. C. (2002). "A survey of science content in US radio broadcasting, 1920's through 1940s - Scientists speak in their own voices." Science Communication 24(1): 4-33.	During the formative years of radio broadcasting in the United States, information about science and medicine was initially packaged in formats common to educational settings, such as talks by individual scientists. Broadcasters eventually developed more appealing presentation approaches, adapting to the American listeners' expressed preference for drama and fast-paced entertainment, although the scientific community often hesitated to participate in such efforts to reach mass audiences. This survey of U.S. radio programming examines informational science series, broadcast from the 1920s through the 1940s, and the role played by key individuals, associations, and corporate underwriters. It identifies several trends pertinent to understanding the state of popular science communication today and raises questions for future research by historians of science communication.

Laird, F. N. (1989). "The Decline of Deference - the Political Context of Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 9(4): 543-550.
	
Lakoff, G. (2010). "Why it Matters How We Frame the Environment." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(1): 70-81.
	
Laksa, U. (2014). "National Discussions, Global Repercussions: Ethics in British Newspaper Coverage of Global Climate Negotiations." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(3): 368-387.	There is convincing evidence that the media have been responsible for questionable coverage on climate change, which has been blamed for undermining public consensus on the issue. However, less is known about the way in which the media communicate the key values, or ethical dimension, surrounding the debate over climate change and its global effects. It is generally argued that a strong notion of cosmopolitanism rather than narrow national self-interest will be fundamental to the achievement of a comprehensive international agreement on climate change. The media provide a crucial forum for discussing such challenges. The study examines how climate ethics form part of the debate on climate change in three British national newspapers leading up to, during, and following two key United Nations conferences. Through a quantitative and qualitative content analysis of climate change coverage, this article examines how the values of cosmopolitanism and communitarianism underpin the debate on climate ethics in the respective newspapers. This article argues that the possibility of reaching a fair climate agreement partially depends upon the ability of media to inform citizens of the inherent injustices of climate change and the importance of taking bold action. It is concluded that a more cosmopolitan perspective in the media could be useful in helping sway public opinion in favor of effective climate action.

Lamphere, J. A. and E. A. East (2017). "Monsanto's Biotechnology Politics: Discourses of Legitimation." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(1): 75-89.	Since the first product became commercially available in 1995, biotechnology has become the fastest growing crop technology, dominating large shares of the global agricultural market. The development of biotechnology, however, has given rise to questions regarding human and ecological safety, culminating in local and global political battles. While researchers interested in biotech politics have focused on areas such as media framing, social movements, and campaign work, less attention has been paid to how the industry has historically promoted and legitimized this swift proliferation. In this study, we conduct a discourse analysis of documents available on live and archived websites to discern the legitimation strategies employed by one important corporate actor, Monsanto. Findings show that for nearly two decades, Monsanto consistently employed discursive resources that concealed details about actors and action, reflected trends among experts in global sustainability discourse, and reshaped narratives to promote itself, products, and biotechnology in general.

Land-Zandstra, A. M., et al. (2016). "Citizen science on a smartphone: Participants' motivations and learning." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 45-60.	Citizen science provides researchers means to gather or analyse large datasets. At the same time, citizen science projects offer an opportunity for non-scientists to be part of and learn from the scientific process. In the Dutch iSPEX project, a large number of citizens turned their smartphones into actual measurement devices to measure aerosols. This study examined participants' motivation and perceived learning impacts of this unique project. Most respondents joined iSPEX because they wanted to contribute to the scientific goals of the project or because they were interested in the project topics (health and environmental impact of aerosols). In terms of learning impact, respondents reported a gain in knowledge about citizen science and the topics of the project. However, many respondents had an incomplete understanding of the science behind the project, possibly caused by the complexity of the measurements.

Landau, J., et al. (2009). "Visualizing nanotechnology: the impact of visual images on lay American audience associations with nanotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 18(3): 325-337.	Developments in nanotechnology are attracting the attention of scholars of science communication who can play a strategic role in understanding technology adoption by the public. This paper begins to address a critical gap in that research by studying the impact of visual images on lay American audience associations with nanotechnology. An inductive qualitative analysis of semi-structured interviews about participants' general knowledge of nanotechnology and their reactions to two different visual images of nanotechnology revealed 10 themes, which were sometimes valenced positively or negatively: science, (medicinal) machines, technology, very small, sky, motion, (childhood) toys, bodily blood, injecting (disease), and foreign (insect). We argue that these findings illustrate a specific "visual" domain of "science" images, that this domain is organized to contain polarities, and that this leads to volatility in public attitudes but also flexibility in responses to a range of visual images of new sciences such as nanotechnology.

Landry, R., et al. (2001). "Climbing the ladder of research utilization - Evidence from social science research." Science Communication 22(4): 396-422.	In this article, the Knott and Wildavsky stages of knowledge utilization are considered separately and compared with the previous stage to find factors explaining why researchers are able to climb up the lander of knowledge utilization from the echelon of no transmission to transmission. then to cognition, reference. effort, influence, and application. The results suggest that there are barriers to climbing and that these barriers are primarily located between the stage of no transmission and the stage of transmission. These results carry theoretical and policy implications that are explored in the last part of the article.

Landstrom, C. (2013). "Rationality and Ritual: Participation and Exclusion in Nuclear Decision-making, 2nd edition." Public Understanding of Science 22(1): 122-122.
	
Lane, B. (2000). "Public understanding of the environmental impact of road transport." Public Understanding of Science 9(2): 165-174.	Policy makers are hoping that the public will assist in the move reward a sustainable transport system by purchasing alternatively fueled vehicles (AFVs), many of which are now available in the UK. But if the public's knowledge-base of transport issues is low, it seems unlikely that consumer behavior will change sufficiently enough to solve the problems associated with high levels of traffic pollution. To assess the extent of popular understanding, an open-ended questionnaire has been used to investigate the perceptions of the British public on issues relating to transport. Topics include the environmental impact of vehicle emissions and the level of awareness of other alternative transport technologies such as natural gas, fuel-cell, and hybrid vehicles. The focus is to identify the most common misconceptions, with a view to improving educational programs designed to encourage the uptake of AFVs.

Lanza, T., et al. (2014). "Bringing Earth Into the Scene of a Primary School: A Science Theatre Experience." Science Communication 36(1): 131-139.	Studies have shown that narrative is a valid tool to transmit science in a school context. We explored science theatre to promote earthquake knowledge and risk preparedness by readapting an old legend describing the 1908 Messina earthquake into a script, which was then performed in a primary school. We evaluated the experience designing a questionnaire inspired by the Duss Fairy Tales method and a semistructured questionnaire. Preliminary results strongly encourage science theatre as a means to transfer knowledge and open new opportunities to use this method as an agent of change in behavior before and during an earthquake.

Lapinski, M. K., et al. (2013). "Shark bytes: message sensation value and emotional appeals in shark diving websites." Journal of Risk Research 16(6): 733-751.	Websites designed to promote risky activities provide a novel context for studying the role of emotional appeals and message sensation value (MSV) in risk messages in order to ultimately understand the type of messages that motivate people to engage in risk behaviors. Framed in theories of message design and emotion, this study investigates representations of threat, efficacy, and the extent to which risk messages appeal to a range of positive and negative emotions through the examination of 53 shark diving websites using content analysis and computer generated linguistic analysis. Results indicate that few websites provide explicit threat information (i.e. severity and susceptibility) but many do present implicit threats. Efficacy-related messages were present on all websites. Positive emotion was more common than negative emotion and there is little representation of the traditional components of MSV. Implications for theory development and communication about risk-seeking are addressed.

Larson, B. M. H., et al. (2005). "Metaphors and biorisks - The war on infectious diseases and invasive species." Science Communication 26(3): 243-268.	This article seeks to construct a comparative investigation of the role and application of militaristic metaphors in three contested areas of science-society discourse (invasive species, foot-and-mouth disease, and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome). It examines differences in the uses of metaphors and the role played by the emergence or neglect of critical linguistic engagement in these areas of public concern. It contributes to debates about the relationship between language use, policy, and the public understanding of science and technology. It demonstrates that militaristic metaphors are still part of a pervasive, but by no means inevitable, mode of science and policy communication.

Larter, R. (2009). "Reinventing the Sacred: A New View of Science, Reason, and Religion." Science Communication 30(4): 548-551.
	
Lassen, I., et al. (2011). "Climate Change Discourses and Citizen Participation: A Case Study of the Discursive Construction of Citizenship in Two Public Events." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(4): 411-427.	Citizen participation is a recurrent and democratically important issue in the ongoing debate about climate change. However, different meanings are ascribed to citizen participation in different contexts, ranging from top-down involvement to bottom-up engagement, thus creating tension between conflicting ideals. Focusing on public engagement and its construal in different situational contexts, we explore how citizens are discursively included or excluded from participation, as various climate change discourses unfold in two forums where local needs and global concerns interact. Furthermore, we address some opportunities and barriers regarding citizen participation in climate change issues.

Lassen, J. (2018). "Listened to, but not heard! The failure to represent the public in genetically modified food policies." Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 923-936.
	'In the mid-1990s, a mismatch was addressed between European genetically modified food policy, which focused primarily on risks and economic prospects, and public anxieties, which also included other concerns, and there was a development in European food policy toward the inclusion of what were referred to as "ethical aspects." Using parliamentary debates in Denmark in 2002 and 2015 as a case, this article examines how three storylines of concern that were visible in public discourse at the time were represented by the decision makers in parliament. It shows that core public concerns raising fundamental questions about genetically modified foods, and in particular their perceived unnaturalness, were not considered in the parliamentary debates. It is suggested that the failure of the parliament to represent the public may undermine the legitimacy of politicians and lead to disillusionment with parliamentary government.

Latowsky, G. (2003). "Report: Community-based, participatory research in Lawrence, Massachusetts, flags environmental health hazards and fuels education and action." Science Communication 25(2): 204-208.	Collaboration among community residents, environmental scientists, and local health agencies and providers in the Casa de Salud (Health House) project informs the environmental health agenda for Lawrence, Massachusetts, a largely Latino-populated city suffering front industrial decline, antiquated rental housing, and myriad environmental hazards. For example, when Casa learned from residents that local botanicas sold mercury in capsules for ritual purposes, the project conducted a community-based, participatory research study that documented and described extensive mercury use among Spanish-speaking residents; in response, the Casa project partners generated educational outreach activities in Spanish and English. This report describes this community-based, participatory research study.

Lauber, T. B., et al. (2018). "Effects of an Advisory Brochure on Fish Consumption of Urban Anglers in the Great Lakes Region." Risk Analysis 38(7): 1405-1421.	Past research has suggested that urban anglers are a group at high risk of being exposed to contaminants from fish consumption. Fish consumption advisories have been used in many regions to encourage healthy fish-eating behaviors, but few studies have been designed to assess whether these advisories actually influence behavior as intended. We conducted a large-scale, randomized experiment to test the influence of an advisory brochure on urban anglers' fish consumption. We collected detailed information on anglers' fish consumption in three urban counties in the Great Lakes region in the summers of 2014 and 2015. We provided a treatment group with fish consumption guidelines in an advisory brochure before the summer of 2015 and compared their change in fish consumption to a control group. The brochure led to a reduction in fish consumption for anglers who ate the most fish; these anglers reduced their consumption of high-contaminant purchased fish (by 0.2 meals/summer for those in 72nd percentile of fish consumption or above), high-contaminant sport-caught fish (by 0.4 meals/summer for those in 87th percentile and above), and low-contaminant sport-caught fish (by 0.3 meals/summer by those in 76th percentile and above). The brochure also reduced sport-caught fish consumption among those anglers who exceeded the advisories in 2014 (by 2.0 meals/summer). In addition, the brochure led to small increases in sport-caught fish consumption (0.4-0.6 meals/summer) in urban anglers who ate very little sport-caught fish (1 meal/summer).

Laukyte, M. (2013). "Critical Risk Research: Practices, Politics and Ethics." Public Understanding of Science 22(3): 380-380.
	
Lave, T. R. and L. B. Lave (1991). "Public Perception of the Risks of Floods - Implications for Communication." Risk Analysis 11(2): 255-267.
	
Lazard, A. and L. Atkinson (2015). "Putting Environmental Infographics Center Stage: The Role of Visuals at the Elaboration Likelihood Model's Critical Point of Persuasion." Science Communication 37(1): 6-33.	Infographics, which integrate visuals and text, can increase audience engagement with message content. Relying on two experiments, this study demonstrates the role of visuals for decisions to critically evaluate pro-environmental messages. Using the Elaboration Likelihood Model as a theoretical foundation, we demonstrate that individuals engage in greater levels of issue-relevant thinking when shown infographics compared to messages that rely just on text or just on illustration, with learning preferences and visual literacy as moderators. The findings demonstrate that visual content is an important factor for persuasive message processing, and infographic messages hold opportunities for the communication of environmental issues.

Lazo, J. K., et al. (2015). "Factors Affecting Hurricane Evacuation Intentions." Risk Analysis 35(10): 1837-1857.	Protective actions for hurricane threats are a function of the environmental and information context; individual and household characteristics, including cultural worldviews, past hurricane experiences, and risk perceptions; and motivations and barriers to actions. Using survey data from the Miami-Dade and Houston-Galveston areas, we regress individuals' stated evacuation intentions on these factors in two information conditions: (1) seeing a forecast that a hurricane will hit one's area, and (2) receiving an evacuation order. In both information conditions having an evacuation plan, wanting to keep one's family safe, and viewing one's home as vulnerable to wind damage predict increased evacuation intentions. Some predictors of evacuation intentions differ between locations; for example, Florida respondents with more egalitarian worldviews are more likely to evacuate under both information conditions, and Florida respondents with more individualist worldviews are less likely to evacuate under an evacuation order, but worldview was not significantly associated with evacuation intention for Texas respondents. Differences by information condition also emerge, including: (1) evacuation intentions decrease with age in the evacuation order condition but increase with age in the saw forecast condition, and (2) evacuation intention in the evacuation order condition increases among those who rely on public sources of information on hurricane threats, whereas in the saw forecast condition evacuation intention increases among those who rely on personal sources. Results reinforce the value of focusing hurricane information efforts on evacuation plans and residential vulnerability and suggest avenues for future research on how hurricane contexts shape decision making.

Lazo, J. K., et al. (2000). "Expert and layperson perceptions of ecosystem risk." Risk Analysis 20(2): 179-193.	This research examines and compares perceptions held by laypeople and ecologists about risks to ecosystems, particularly risk from global climate change (GCC). A survey elicited perceptions of 31 risk characteristics for 13 GCC and 12 non-GCC risks to ecosystems. Factor analysis was used to examine the structure of layperson and expert risk perceptions. Both experts and laypeople tend to perceive GCC risks to ecosystems as less avoidable and more acceptable than risks from other causes. Compared to laypeople's perceptions, though, experts perceived GCC risks to have slightly lower impacts, be less avoidable, more acceptable, and less understandable than non-GCC risks to ecosystems. These findings may help guide efforts to communicate with laypeople about ecological risks from climate change.

Lazrus, H., et al. (2016). ""Know What to Do If You Encounter a Flash Flood": Mental Models Analysis for Improving Flash Flood Risk Communication and Public Decision Making." Risk Analysis 36(2): 411-427.	Understanding how people view flash flood risks can help improve risk communication, ultimately improving outcomes. This article analyzes data from 26 mental models interviews about flash floods with members of the public in Boulder, Colorado, to understand their perspectives on flash flood risks and mitigation. The analysis includes a comparison between public and professional perspectives by referencing a companion mental models study of Boulder-area professionals. A mental models approach can help to diagnose what people already know about flash flood risks and responses, as well as any critical gaps in their knowledge that might be addressed through improved risk communication. A few public interviewees mentioned most of the key concepts discussed by professionals as important for flash flood warning decision making. However, most interviewees exhibited some incomplete understandings and misconceptions about aspects of flash flood development and exposure, effects, or mitigation that may lead to ineffective warning decisions when a flash flood threatens. These include important misunderstandings about the rapid evolution of flash floods, the speed of water in flash floods, the locations and times that pose the greatest flash flood risk in Boulder, the value of situational awareness and environmental cues, and the most appropriate responses when a flash flood threatens. The findings point to recommendations for ways to improve risk communication, over the long term and when an event threatens, to help people quickly recognize and understand threats, obtain needed information, and make informed decisions in complex, rapidly evolving extreme weather events such as flash floods.

Leach, J. (1997). "The Faber book of science - Carey,J." Public Understanding of Science 6(1): 104-107.
	
Leach, J. (1999). "Constructing the beginning: Discourses of creation science." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 257-258.
	
Lean, T. (2013). "Mediating the microcomputer: The educational character of the 1980s British popular computing boom." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 546-558.	In the early 1980s the computer entered the British home in significant numbers for the first time as many thousands of people purchased their first personal microcomputer'. In this paper I explore the educational character of the home computer boom, a response to unease over the impact of new information technologies. Media, government, social movements and computer manufacturers constituted a systematic effort to enhance the public understanding of a new technology that was anticipated to change the world.

Leaver, M. and T. W. Reader (2016). "Non-technical skills for managing risk and performance in financial trading." Journal of Risk Research 19(6): 687-721.	Recent large-scale failures in financial institutions have been found to be caused, in-part, by human factors-related issues in financial trading. In other environments where risk management and performance are intertwined, a human factors approach is often adopted to understand how the non-technical skills (NTS)' (leadership (LD), decision-making (DM), situation awareness (SA), teamwork) of organisational actors influence outcomes. Yet, to date, there has been minimal application of human factors research in financial trading. This study (i) identifies real-world' (i.e. non-laboratory) research studies investigating the NTS important for performance in financial trading, (ii) examines and synthesises data on the NTS found to underpin good or poor performance and (iii) considers the quality and coverage of research investigating NTS in financial trading, and identifies potential areas for future research. Nineteen studies were identified through a systematic literature search and then content-analysed for associations between NTS and performance in financial trading. The review found a range of decision-making (e.g. heuristics and biases, intuitive DM, emotional regulation) and LD skills (e.g. setting standards, monitoring behaviour, encouraging speaking-up) to have been identified as important for managing risk and performance in financial trading environments. Furthermore, SA (e.g. information search and assessment strategies, vigilance, identifying noise' data) and teamwork (e.g. avoiding role' conflict, communication between traders) were found to be important, yet remain less explored within the literature, and should be the focus of future research. NTS appear essential for effective risk management within the financial sector, yet further field research is required to examine the context-relevant behaviours that underpin safe activity. This will facilitate the development of evidence-based systems for assessing and training NTS competencies.

LeClerc, J. and S. Joslyn (2015). "The Cry Wolf Effect and Weather-Related Decision Making." Risk Analysis 35(3): 385-395.	Despite improvements in forecasting extreme weather events, noncompliance with weather warnings among the public remains a problem. Although there are likely many reasons for noncompliance with weather warnings, one important factor might be people's past experiences with false alarms. The research presented here explores the role of false alarms in weather-related decision making. Over a series of trials, participants used an overnight low temperature forecast and advice from a decision aid to decide whether to apply salt treatment to a town's roads to prevent icy conditions or take the risk of withholding treatment, which resulted in a large penalty when freezing temperatures occurred. The decision aid gave treatment recommendations, some of which were false alarms, i.e., treatment was recommended but observed temperatures were above freezing. The rate at which the advice resulted in false alarms was manipulated between groups. Results suggest that very high and very low false alarm rates led to inferior decision making, but that lowering the false alarm rate slightly did not significantly affect compliance or decision quality. However, adding a probabilistic uncertainty estimate in the forecasts improved both compliance and decision quality. These findings carry implications about how weather warnings should be communicated to the public.

Lederbogen, U. and J. Trebbe (2003). "Promoting science on the Web - Public relations for scientific organizations - Results of a content analysis." Science Communication 24(3): 333-352.	Today, universities and research organizations are expected to present themselves as service enterprises that cater to the needs of the customer and give a modern impression to compete internationally. Realizing that scientists have to step out of the "arcanum" of the ivory tower has led to an intensified dialogue between science, the economy, the state, and society. Has the Internet provided new possibilities for global science communication? Answering that question is the main objective of the research project titled "Science Communication Online," which was carried out at the Free University of Berlin. This article summarizes the results of a content analysis made in the early summer of 2000. As the empirical basis of the study, Web pages of German universities and non-university-based research institutions were examined. The selected institutions are among the most renowned research centers worldwide, according to the Science Citation Index.

Lederman, L. (1999). "Science, technology and citizenship." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 65-66.
	
Ledoux, L. (1999). "Commentary: Young scientists' participation in the World Conference on Science." Science Communication 21(2): 192-195.	The International Forum of Young Scientists met just prior to the World Conference on Science as one of the conference satellite events, and a few of the young scientists participated in the conference itself. Among other things, the young scientists petitioned for the establishment of the international Forum of Young Scientists (IFYS) as a permanent structure supported by the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).

Lee, C. J., et al. (2005). "Public attitudes toward emerging technologies - Examining the interactive effects of cognitions and affect on public attitudes toward nanotechnology." Science Communication 27(2): 240-267.	Previous studies on public attitudes toward emerging technologies have treated cognitive and affective influences on public opinion as distinct, with little attention to the possible interaction between the two. Directly addressing this issue, we argue that cognitive and affective factors not only have important separate effects oil public attitudes but also work in tandem to produce effects. In particular it may be that affective variables shape the impact of cognitions and vice versa. We use data from a national telephone survey to test this interactive model of decision making about emerging technologies. Our analyses show that emotional heuristics moderate the effect that knowledge about nanotechnology has on people's overall attitudes toward nanotechnology, with knowledge having a weaker effect oil attitudes for people who do show strong emotional reactions to the topic. The implications of these findings for future research and policy making in this area are discussed

Lee, E. W. J., et al. (2013). "Communication and knowledge as motivators: understanding Singaporean women's perceived risks of breast cancer and intentions to engage in preventive measures." Journal of Risk Research 16(7): 879-902.	As breast cancer is the most prevalent cancer among women in Singapore, encouraging them to engage in preventive measures becomes increasingly important. This study aims to take a closer look at the influence of attention to media, interpersonal communication, news elaboration, and knowledge on women's (aged between 30 and 70) perceived risks of breast cancer and their intentions to engage in preventive measures in Singapore. Attention to media, frequency of interpersonal communication, fatalistic belief, and knowledge structure density were found to be associated with risk perception of breast cancer among Singaporean women. Findings also showed that frequency of interpersonal communication, risk perception, elaboration, and factual knowledge were positively associated with women's intentions to take up preventive measures such as breast self-examination, clinical breast examination, and mammography. Implications for theory and practice were discussed.

Lee, F. L. F. (2016). "Economic Conditions, the Policy Cycle, and Media Visibility of Environmental Organizations." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(2): 187-205.	The extent to which social movements have access to the news media has important implications on the capability of social movements to communicate with and garner support from the public. Factors that shape movement organizations' media visibility thus deserve scholarly attention. This article deals with news coverage of environmental movement organizations (EMOs) in Hong Kong and focuses on the impact of economic conditions, the policy cycle, and the number of EMOs in society on media visibility of EMOs. Analysis of a data-set constructed based on archival data and official statistics illustrates that all three factors influence media visibility of EMOs through media attention to environmental issues, while the number of EMOs and economic conditions also affect media visibility of EMOs directly. In-depth interview data are then used to supplement the quantitative analysis by showing how movement activists perceive and respond strategically to the structural factors. Theoretical implications of the findings are discussed.

Lee, K. (2008). "Making Environmental Communications Meaningful to Female Adolescents." Science Communication 30(2): 147-176.	Past efforts in studying environmental communication tend to focus on Western samples. This article investigates factors that are important in predicting female adolescents' environmental behavior in Hong Kong. Data from a survey conducted with a sample of 3,035 female adolescents show that environmental concern was the top predictor of environmental behavior, followed by perceived environmental responsibility, perceived effectiveness of environmental behavior, and perceived seriousness of environmental problems. It is surprising that environmental attitude was found to be the least important predictor of environmental behavior in the female adolescents of Hong Kong. Theoretical and practical implications of the findings are discussed.

Lee, K. L., et al. (2009). "Analyzing Risk Response Dynamics on the Web: The Case of Hurricane Katrina." Risk Analysis 29(12): 1779-1792.	Using a unique data set that documented the hourly web-surfing behavior of over 140,000 Internet users in five southeastern states in August 2005, we explore the dynamics of information gathering as Hurricane Katrina developed and then hit South Florida and the Northern Gulf Coast. Using both elementary statistical methods and advanced techniques from functional data analysis,((1)) we examine both how storm events (such as the posting of warnings) affected traffic to weather-related websites, and how this traffic varied across locations and by characteristics of the web user. A general finding is that spatial-temporal variation in weather-site web traffic generally tracked the timing and scale of the storm threat experienced by a given area. There was, however, considerable variation in this responsiveness. Residents in Florida counties that had been most directly affected by Hurricane Dennis just a month earlier, for example, displayed more active visitation rates than those who had been less affected. We also find evidence of a gender effect where male users displayed a disproportionately larger rate of visitation to weather sites given the onset of storm warnings than females. The implications of this work for the broader study of behavioral risk response dynamics during hazards are explored.

Lee, M. and A. McGovern (2016). "Logics of risk: police communications in an age of uncertainty." Journal of Risk Research 19(10): 1291-1302.	The risk society thesis suggests that risk thinking has, in the twenty-first century, become pervasive across numerous organisations, including police. Police are now one of a number of agents that put themselves forward as expert advisers on risk reduction and management techniques. Police organisations not only govern through risk logics and make claims to special expertise in risk management, communication and reduction; they are also increasingly governed by risk logics that, amongst other things, circumscribe what information can be released to the media and public, when, by whom, and to what ends. Based on qualitative research interviews with police communications professionals in Australian policing organisations, this paper argues that risk as an organising logic has strongly influenced the nature of contemporary police/media/public communications.

Lee, N. M. and M. S. VanDyke (2015). "Set It and Forget It: The One-Way Use of Social Media by Government Agencies Communicating Science." Science Communication 37(4): 533-541.	As traditional thinking about science communication is modified to emphasize engagement with science, public relations theorizingparticularly related to dialogic communicationmay contribute to science communication theory and practice. Despite calls to move beyond the deficit model, we argue that many science organizations continue to practice one-way communication and underutilize social media's potential for dialogue. To support our argument, we provide data to illustrate how U.S. federal government science agencies use new media platforms for information dissemination rather than engagement. We call for a clearer integration of public relations theories and science communication models to inform communication best practices.

Lee, N. M., et al. (2018). "A Reply to Lindsey, Herring, and Greenhalgh on "A Missed Opportunity?: NOAA's Use of Social Media to Communicate Climate Science"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 287-288.
	
Lee, N. M., et al. (2018). "Lee, VanDyke and Cummins, A Missed Opportunity?: NOAA's Use of Social Media to Communicate Climate Science (vol 12, pg 274, 2016)." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): X-X.
	
Lee, N. M., et al. (2018). "A Missed Opportunity?: NOAA's Use of Social Media to Communicate Climate Science." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 274-283.	In the current media landscape, organizations often communicate about science directly with publics through online channels rather than relying on journalist gatekeepers. Online platforms present organizations with the opportunity to participate in two-way communication in order to increase engagement with science. The present study examined how the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) utilizes social media to interact with publics. Results suggest that NOAA does not fully utilize the dialogic potential of social media, which could enhance both the public's science literacy and trust in science regarding climate change specifically. This study informs how public relations theory may complement science communication theory and practice as deficit model-thinking transitions to contemporary approaches for public engagement with science.

Lee, S. and S. H. Kim (2018). "Scientific Knowledge and Attitudes Toward Science in South Korea: Does Knowledge Lead to Favorable Attitudes?" Science Communication 40(2): 147-172.	According to the scientific literacy model, enhancing the public's knowledge of science will dispel misperceptions, which in turn can promote more favorable attitudes toward scientists and their research. Using data from a national survey of South Koreans, our study closely examines how different types of scientific knowledge (factual vs. procedural) are associated with different predictors of attitudes (perceived level of risk, uncertainty of risk, controllability of risk, and perceived trust in scientists), which in turn mediate the link between knowledge and attitudes. Unlike the findings from other countries, we found that scientific knowledge, both factual and procedural, was overall negativelyrather than positivelyassociated with South Koreans' attitudes toward science. Findings also demonstrated that knowledge could have either a positive or negative indirect effect, depending upon the types of mediators and the types of knowledge involved in producing such an effect. Implications of the findings are discussed in detail.

Leeming, W. (2011). "Graphical and Computationally Intensive Techniques for Presenting and Disseminating Information About the Genetics of Disease: Possibilities, Limitations, and Additions." Science Communication 33(4): 415-447.	Exactly how genetic factors contribute to the onset of disease is not fully understood. All the same, information and images pertaining to genetics and disease remain arguably serviceable when they produce agreeable diagnostic, prognostic, and, ultimately, therapeutic results. This article begins with a historical survey of graphical techniques concerning hereditary disease. The article then goes on to show how information gathering and representation broadened steadily to accommodate genetic diagnostic tests. This leads, in a final step, to an examination of the capacity of computational genetics and genomics to generate working models of what causes disease.

Leenen, M. and B. Penders (2016). "Dissident Dietary Credibility: The Power of Discontent." Science Communication 38(5): 551-573.	This article investigates the ways in which food author Verburgh has attempted to engineer credibility for himself, his book The Food Hourglass, and the arguments it contains. Through a careful reading and analysis of the text, interviews with the author, and other credibility conquest participants, we show that Verburgh engineers credibility through enlisting the authority of science, questioning the integrity of others, and positioning himself as a dissident. This initiates a constant renegotiation of credibility in the interaction between Verburgh, nutrition scientists, and others, in which Verburgh actively constructs his public credibility at the expense of scientific credibility.

Leggett, M. and M. Finlay (2001). "Science, story, and image: a new approach to crossing the communication barrier posed by scientific jargon." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 157-171.	The Kyoto Protocol has forced governments and power utilities to consider using renewable energy sources. Since these changes have political, social, and environmental consequences, it is important to understand non-scientists' perceptions of the problem and possible solutions. The authors have developed a way of overcoming barriers to communication posed by technical language, using images as a focus for the discussion of issues that participants associate with our current use of energy and its possible future uses. Participants select images, describe the significance of these images, and tell their own story of renewable energy. Further exploration is carried out through the use of follow-up interviews. This way of working has demonstrated its effectiveness by revealing an interesting diversity and depth in participants' understanding of renewable energy. In particular, it has revealed the complex way in which participants move between the human, technological, ethical, social, emotional, and spiritual aspects of energy.

LeGreco, M. and D. Leonard (2011). "Building Sustainable Community-Based Food Programs: Cautionary Tales from The Garden." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(3): 356-362.	This essay calls attention to the practical implications that community food organizers can glean from Scott Hamilton Kennedy's documentary, The Garden. More specifically, the authors examine the discursive tensions faced by the South Central Farmers as a way to make sense of their own use of dialog, policy, and health networking to build a community food initiative. The essay concludes by offering a unique metaphor-mycelium-in order to promote sustainable health practices and organize community-based food programs.

Lehmkuhl, M., et al. (2016). "Audience reach of science on television in 10 European countries: An analysis of people-meter data." Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 223-235.	Beginning with a differentiation of science programmes into five different editorial concepts, this article explores the audience reach of science on television in 10 European countries with a special emphasis on young audiences aged between 14 and 29 years. In relation to the share of this age group in the entire population, science programmes in all countries reach a considerably smaller proportion of younger viewers. Specific preferences for science content on television do not seem to be relevant in explaining aggregated viewing behaviours especially of young audiences. Unlike all other segments, the young science viewer segment is almost intangible as an aggregated group, as a definable segment of a mass audience that can be targeted by science programme makers.

Lehmkuhl, M., et al. (2012). "Scheduling science on television: A comparative analysis of the representations of science in 11 European countries." Public Understanding of Science 21(8): 1002-1018.	This article explores the factors that influence the volume and structure of science programming by European television broadcasters, focussing on differences among channel patterns. It proposes three factors as relevant to understanding differences in science programming: A) the segmentation/fragmentation of television markets; B) the presence of middle sized commercial channels; C) the dependency of public service TV channels on commercial income (trading/advertising). We identified countries whose channel patterns encourage a varied picture of science - namely Sweden, Finland and Germany. They are distinguished from those which show a less differentiated picture and present a smaller volume of science content on television - such as Great Britain and Ireland. Finally, we identified countries whose channel patterns don't encourage a varied picture of science - namely Spain, Greece, Bulgaria and Estonia - and these countries present their small volume of science content at off-peak hours, in contrast to patterns in Great Britain and Ireland.

Lehmkuhl, M. and H. P. Peters (2016). "Constructing (un-)certainty: An exploration of journalistic decision-making in the reporting of neuroscience." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 909-926.	Based on 21 individual case studies, this article inventories the ways journalism deals with scientific uncertainty. The study identifies the decisions that impact a journalist's perception of a truth claim as unambiguous or ambiguous and the strategies to deal with uncertainty that arise from this perception. Key for understanding journalistic action is the outcome of three evaluations: What is the story about? How shall the story be told? What type of story is it? We reconstructed the strategies to overcome journalistic decision-making uncertainty in those cases in which they perceived scientific contingency as a problem. Journalism deals with uncertainty by way of omission, by contrasting the conflicting messages or by acknowledging the problem via the structure or language. One finding deserves particular mention: The lack of focus on scientific uncertainty is not only a problem of how journalists perceive and communicate but also a problem of how science communicates.

Lehmkuhl, M. J. (2008). "Congruency within rural social networks as an indicator of interpersonal influence on risk judgments: the great stir caused by BSE in a village in northern Germany." Public Understanding of Science 17(4): 485-502.	In the following survey, congruency within a sample of 150 rural social networks ascertained by comparing independently gathered data is used as an indicator of interpersonal influence concerning BSE-related current knowledge and consumption habits. Our findings suggest that friends, relatives and acquaintances mutually orientated each other about what was worth knowing about BSE. Concerning the behavioral dimension of risk judgments, our findings indicate that social networks obtained within the village explored have activated collective resistance against fear. This is explained by the character of the risk source. Positive attitudes towards conventional farming obviously contributed to the social identity of villagers. The devaluation of conventional farming as a source of societal threat by the mass media touched on an integral part of the self-definitions of villagers and activated resistance within their social networks. It is argued that a central point in explaining the role of interpersonal influence in risk judgments is not only the dimension of risk judgments but the character of the risk source. If attitudes concerning a risk source contribute positively to one's identity, the devaluation of the risk source by mass media coverage may enhance the probability of collective resistance against fear.

Lehoux, P., et al. (2018). "Anticipating health innovations in 2030-2040: Where does responsibility lie for the publics?" Public Understanding of Science 27(3): 276-293.	Considering that public engagement is pivotal to the mission of Responsible Research and Innovation, this article's aim is to examine how members of the public conceive of the relationship between responsibility and prospective health technologies. We organized four face-to-face deliberative workshops and an online forum wherein participants were invited to comment on scenarios involving three fictional technologies in 2030 and 2040. Our analyses describe how participants anticipated these technologies' impacts and formulated two conditions for their use: they should (1) be embedded within professional care and services and (2) include social protection of individual freedom and privacy. By clarifying what technological direction shall be avoided and who shall act responsibly, these conditions emphasize our participants' understanding of society as much as their understanding of science. For new technologies to be deployed in socially responsible ways, public engagement methods should be developed alongside public governance and regulatory strategies.

Leiss, W. (1995). "Down and dirty: The use and abuse of public trust in risk communication." Risk Analysis 15(6): 685-692.	Many recent contributions to risk communication research stress the importance of the element of ''trust'' in the process of successful communication. This paper uses that theme in considering risk communication within the context of seeking consensus on matters of health and environmental risk controversies through stakeholder negotiation. It suggests that there are very good reasons, based on historical experience, for the parties to mistrust each other deeply in such settings. For example there is abundant evidence involving episodes in which risk promoters have concealed or ignored relevant risk data or simply have sought to advance their own interests by selective use of such data. These well-established practices compound the difficulties other stakeholders face, in all such negotiation, by virtue of the inescapable uncertainties (as well as absence of needed data) inherent in risk assessments. These factors encourage the participants to treat such negotiations as poker games in which bluffing, raising the ante, and calling the perceived bluffs of others are matters of survival. In the end we should recognize the genuine dilemmas that citizens face in trying to figure out who and what to believe in making sensible decisions among the range of risks, benefits, and tradeoffs that confront us.

Leiss, W. and A. M. Nicol (2006). "A tale of two food risks: BSE and farmed salmon in Canada." Journal of Risk Research 9(8): 891-910.	Today the public has access to enhanced resources for interpreting the technical basis of risk communication messages, emanating from government and industry, dealing with food risk issues. These resources include extensive media reporting on key scientific studies as well as Internet sites, hosted by many different players, where the scientific and statistical basis for risk assessments are presented, debated, and criticized. In this information-rich context risk managers are challenged to present a clear, forthright, and honest account of the scientific and statistical underpinnings-including uncertainties-for their risk estimations. We discuss these issues in the context of two recent Canadian food risk cases, BSE in cattle and farmed salmon. In the BSE case the government's risk communications failed to accurately express the nature and scope of the risk as it had been evaluated by government officials in technical documentation; specifically, the complex statistical manipulations served as a smokescreen behind which was hidden the true-catastrophic-risk, namely, that the discovery of even a single case of BSE in the Canadian herd would have "extreme'' consequences for the entire group of small, independent beef producers. In the case of farmed salmon, our study shows that the contaminant numbers are open to differences in interpretation among government agencies, and that understanding the level of risk is no simple business. The industry should have acted years ago to ensure that the public was provided with reliable resources for understanding the nature of chemical contaminants in fish and the risk assessment methodologies used for determining safe levels of consumption.

Lemanczyk, S. (2014). "Science and National Pride: The Iranian Press Coverage of Nanotechnology, 2004-2009." Science Communication 36(2): 194-218.	This study is the first attempt to study media representations of nanotechnology in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Content analysis has been used to investigate the potential risks and benefits of nanotechnology, centering on the dominating frames, themes, actors, and tone and on the geographical focus of the articles published in the Iranian daily press between 2004 and 2009. The results will offer a new perspective to the ongoing discussion on the social aspects of nanotechnology, looking at it through the lens of a different culture, religion, language, and sociopolitical system.

Lemieux, C. J., et al. (2018). ""The End of the Ice Age?": Disappearing World Heritage and the Climate Change Communication Imperative." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(5): 653-671.	Rapid environmental change in vulnerable destinations has stimulated a new form of travel termed last chance tourism (LCT). Studies have examined the risks of LCT, while leaving potential opportunities within this new tourism market largely underexplored. Results of survey (n=399) research in Jasper National Park, Canada reveal that a LCT motivation influences decisions to visit this iconic Canadian destination, and suggest that this motivation is linked to a desire to learn about the impacts of climate change on the Athabasca Glacier. Findings suggest there may be short to medium term opportunities associated with LCT,including promoting climate change ambassadorship through management interventions. This paper discusses a range of possible education, interpretive, and outreach activities that might be employed at LCT destinations. It outlines the relative merits (or what we refer to as uneasy benefits) of promoting the glacier and other LCT destinations within a protected areas management and climate change adaptation context.

Len-Rios, M. E., et al. (2014). "Deliberation of the Scientific Evidence for Breastfeeding: Online Comments as Social Representations." Science Communication 36(6): 778-801.	This mixed-methods study examines online comments (The Atlantic online, N = 326; NYTimes.com, N = 596) generated by two widely read articles challenging the scientific basis for U.S. government breastfeeding recommendations. The analysis focuses on commenter evaluations of the scientific evidence for breastfeeding. Results demonstrate that commenters socially represented breastfeeding science as a means for manufacturing convenience and also as a process that is prone to flaws in its production and application. Online commenters discussed their personal experiences (42%) with breastfeeding more than its evidence base (16%). Personal and social experiences were used as filters to judge the merits of scientific arguments.

Leon, B. (2008). "Science related information in European television: a study of prime-time news." Public Understanding of Science 17(4): 443-460.	According to the few studies carried out on this subject, in spite of its importance and interest for the audience, science has been a marginal topic in television news, and has presented several problems of quality. This article presents the main results of a comparative research on science in European television, focusing on the main prime-time news programs of the leading public and the leading commercial channel, in the five largest countries. A sample of two weeks (2676 stories) was analyzed, with an outcome of 218 science related stories, which were coded (topic, length, explicit news values, contextual information and scientific explanation). Results indicate that the number and airtime of science related stories have increased, compared to a decade ago, but still do not seem to match the interest that citizens declare to have in science. The quality of the information broadcast seems relatively acceptable, although it still needs to be improved in some aspects, for which new formats of news programs would be helpful.

Leon, B. and M. C. Erviti (2015). "Science in pictures: Visual representation of climate change in Spain's television news." Public Understanding of Science 24(2): 183-199.	The images used by the media to represent science can help people's understanding of complex processes and create meaningful links with audiences. This is particularly relevant in the case of climate change (CC), an important phenomenon that, nevertheless, is often perceived as a remote issue, with no relevance to daily life. This article presents the main results of a research on the images used in television news to represent CC. From a sample of 1476.4 hours of Spanish television news programmes, a content analysis of 78 stories on climate change was carried out. This was complemented with six semi-structured interviews at five TV newsrooms. Results indicate that the low rate of coverage of CC can be related to the scarcity of attractive images available to the channels.

Leong, K. M., et al. (2008). "Formative Coorientation Research: A Tool to Assist with Environmental Decision Making." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(3): 257-273.	A growing body of research recommends interaction between managers and stakeholders to improve natural resource management decisions. While formative stakeholder research and summative evaluations of communication efforts have been well-studied, less research has included formative evaluations comparing managers and stakeholders to inform communication efforts. This study applies the communication concept of coorientation to the case of deer management on open-space lands owned by Cornell University and develops an approach to coorientation analysis for use with small decision-making teams. Mail surveys were used to assess the level of agreement and accuracy between decision makers and residents of nearby communities. Decision makers and residents varied in the topics for which they accurately predicted each other's responses; these differences have implications for approaches to communication. This study also illustrates the utility of coorientation research to reveal areas of difference within the decision-making team, as well as with the public.

Lermer, E., et al. (2013). "How risky? The impact of target person and answer format on risk assessment." Journal of Risk Research 16(7): 903-919.	The present research examined the influence of different risk perspectives by the use of four different target persons (who could be affected: abstract person, self, specific person, and specific others) and of four different questionnaire answer formats (rating, open percentage, open, and closed frequency) on risk assessments. It was assumed that subjects use two different systems in terms of probabilistic reasoning: a distributional approach for abstract targets leading to higher risk estimates and a singular approach for specific targets leading to lower risk assessments. According to unrealistic optimism (UO) research (showing higher risk assessments for an abstract person than for self), the assumption was that risk assessments for a specific (named) target lead to lower risk assessments compared to an abstract target. Further, common quantitative answer formats for assessing risk were compared to explore differences in risk estimates. The hypotheses were tested using data of a sample of 512 students from a Bavarian university. The frequently confirmed finding of UO could be replicated with both rating scale and open frequency scale, which appeared to be more sensitive compared to the other used scales. However, UO disappeared when the comparison target was specific. Further, risk assessments for an abstract target were highest within every answer format and lowest for specific targets. Furthermore, results revealed that the type of answer format has a moderating effect on the extent of the influence of risk perspective on risk assessments. Overall, this study gives evidence that both the chosen scale and the risk perspective strongly influence risk assessments. Results aim to contribute to the research fields of quantitative assessment of perceived risk. They suggest that probabilistic reasoning in regard to risk not only underlies motivational or cognitive ego-defensive mechanisms but is rather presumably caused by the use of different systems of inferential strategies.

Lester, L. (2011). "Species of the Month: Anti-Whaling, Mediated Visibility, and the News." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(1): 124-139.	Paul Watson, founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society and captain of anti-whaling ship the Steve Irwin, has emerged as one of the world's most visible environmental protesters. This essay, based in part on a long interview with Watson in Australia in 2009, analyzes his mediated visibility and thus capacity to participate in public debate by isolating various components of his strategic activities under four themes: mediated protest, symbolic power, media practices, and celebrity. It argues that Watson's visibility involves a complex flow of information and meanings across various ooldo and onewo media form, but remains reliant on news media. Thus, despite his generally astute media practices and strategies, Watson's visibility is contingent on a set of professional practices and logics unlikely to provide sustained news access or long-term legitimacy to a political ooutsider.o.

Lester, L. (2015). "Three Challenges for Environmental Communication Research." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 392-397.
	
Lester, L. (2016). "Containing spectacle in the transnational public sphere." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 791-802.	This paper analyzes the discursive struggle over the reach and containment of spectacle in environmental politics to provide (a) case study-based evidence of how, on one hand, transnationally shared environmental awareness and concern, emerging in part through spectacle, is translating into expectations of participation and demands for accountability, and (b) how this is already impacting the ways in which environmental politics is being understood and enacted locally, regionally and transnationally. Drawing on recent mediated debate over the Great Barrier Reef, it finds that while the transnational is clearly an ambition for environmental campaigners, and the perception that transnational publics are emerging is already impacting environmental politics, the potency of these publics and their capacity to meaningfully negotiate accountability is yet to be empirically confirmed. Nevertheless, measures to contain spectacle are providing a potency for a transnational public sphere, even if in reality it is still little more than a specter.

Levi, Y. (1994). "Rethinking the Concept of Strength - Examples from Cooperatives." Science Communication 16(2): 180-194.	Against the background of the current debate on conventional versus alternative approaches to-and evaluation of-induced development programs, this article challenges the superiority of strength by means of practical illustrations from the field of cooperatives. Analysis of various cooperative projects involving the mentally disabled, poor farmers, and political refugees suggests that the ''weak-low'' elements of a given situation may include the potential for the participatory change sought, rather than a weakness and a hindrance to the attainment of the same.

Levitt, M., et al. (2005). "Gene Week: a novel way of consulting the public." Public Understanding of Science 14(1): 67-79.	Within academic circles, the "deficit" model of public understanding of science has been subject to increasing critical scrutiny by those who favor more constructivist approaches. These suggest that "the public" can articulate sophisticated ideas about the social and ethical implications of science regardless of their level of technical knowledge. The seminal studies following constructivist approaches have generally involved small-scale qualitative investigations, which have minimized the pre-framing of issues to a greater or lesser extent. This article describes the Gene Week Project, sponsored by the Wellcome Trust, which attempted to extend this work to a large-scale consultation on genetics and health through the medium of a local daily newspaper. Readers were invited to respond to a set of open-ended questions that accompanied stimulus material published each day for five consecutive weekdays. The articles were written with the intention of extending the limited range of discourses around genetics and biotechnology that are usually presented by the popular media (hope, fear, tragedy and bravery). Responses raised overarching issues about the place of emerging health technologies in society reminiscent of previous open-ended consultations in this field. The paper ends with a critical discussion about the potential of this method to contribute to the further development of open-ended public consultations.

Levy, J. I. (2008). "Is Epidemiology the Key to Cumulative Risk Assessment ?" Risk Analysis 28(6): 1507-1513.	Although cumulative risk assessment by definition evaluates the joint effects of chemical and nonchemical stressors, studies to date have not considered both dimensions, in part because toxicological studies cannot capture many stressors of interest. Epidemiology can potentially include all relevant stressors, but developing and extracting the necessary information is challenging given some of the inherent limitations of epidemiology. In this article, I propose a conceptual framework within which epidemiological studies could be evaluated for their inclusion into cumulative risk assessment, including a problem formulation/planning and scoping step that focuses on stressors meaningful for risk management decisions, extension of the chemical mixtures framework to include nonchemical stressors, and formal consideration of vulnerability characteristics of the population. In the long term, broadening the applicability and informativeness of cumulative risk assessment will require enhanced communication and collaboration between epidemiologists and risk assessors, in which the structure of social and environmental epidemiological analyses may be informed in part by the needs of cumulative risk assessment.

Lewenstein, B. (1998). "Reflections on visiting a science center." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 267-269.
	
Lewenstein, B. V. (1998). "Untitled." Public Understanding of Science 7(1): 1-3.
	
Lewenstein, B. V. (1999). "The Human Genome Project and the public - Introduction." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 151-151.
	
Lewenstein, B. V. (2000). "Global climate change and the public." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 197-197.
	
Lewenstein, B. V. (2002). "Editor's note: Special section on xenotransplantation." Public Understanding of Science 11(4): 313-313.
	
Lewenstein, B. V. (2002). "Editorial: A decade of public understanding." Public Understanding of Science 11(1): 1-4.
	
Lewenstein, B. V. (2003). "Dorothy Nelkin 30 July 1933-28 May 2003 - In memoriam." Public Understanding of Science 12(4): 355-355.
	
Lewenstein, B. V. (2003). "In memoriam - David Edge 4 September 1932-28 January 2003." Public Understanding of Science 12(1): 2-2.
	
Lewenstein, B. V. (2003). "Untitled." Public Understanding of Science 12(1): 5-6.
	
Lewenstein, B. V. (2005). "Introduction - Nanotechnology and the public." Science Communication 27(2): 169-174.	This article introduces the special issue of Science Communication on "nanotechnology and the public." It argues that studies of "nanotechnology and the public" are important not for themselves, but for their ability to shed light on more general social theories. especially those that help illuminate the interweaving of science mid society.

Lewis, N., et al. (2015). "Medical Cannabis: A Framing Analysis of Israeli Newspaper Coverage." Science Communication 37(6): 675-702.	Medical cannabis is a topic of increasing debate. To investigate this issue, we conducted a content analysis of Israeli news coverage of medical cannabis from 2007 to 2013. A deductive framing analysis examined three elite issue framesmedical, policy, and law enforcement. Additionally, inductive analysis revealed a a fourth, nonelite patients' frame. Each frame was associated with a distinct pattern of textual elements, including portrayal of patients, references to cannabis, opinion about medical cannabis, and salience of scientific research. The most common and most stable frame was the policy frame. Implications for framing theory are discussed.

Lewis, R. E. and M. G. Tyshenko (2009). "The Impact of Social Amplification and Attenuation of Risk and the Public Reaction to Mad Cow Disease in Canada." Risk Analysis 29(5): 714-728.	Following the detection of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in Canada, and subsequently in the United States, confidence in the safety of beef products remained high. Consumers actually increased their consumption of beef slightly after the news of an increased risk from mad cow disease, which has been interpreted as public support for beef farmers and confidence in government regulators. The Canadian public showed a markedly different reaction to the news of domestic BSE than the furious and panicked responses observed in the United Kingdom, Germany, and Japan. Using the social amplification of risk framework, we show that, while other countries displayed social amplification of risk, Canada experienced a social attenuation of risk. The attenuated reaction in Canada toward mad cow disease and increased human health risks from variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) was due to the social context at the time when BSE was discovered domestically. Mortality, morbidity, and psychosocial impacts resulting from other major events such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), West Nile virus (WNV), and the U.S.-Iraq war made the theoretical risks of BSE and vCJD a lower priority, reducing its concern as a risk issue.

Lewis, T. L. (2000). "Media representations of "sustainable development" - Sustaining the status quo?" Science Communication 21(3): 244-273.	How is the concept of sustainable development represented in major U.S. newspapers? Are academic and activists' critiques part of the media message ? Using a systematic qualitative analysis, the author examines the themes and sources of newspaper articles from 1987 to 1997. Sustainable development is presented almost exclusively within an economic growth paradigm that assumes that economic growth, technology and northern expertise are the most effective way to achieve development. The activists and academics that are used as sources do not present alternatives to the dominant development discourse. Instead, the few alternatives that are presented are by the authors of commentaries who are not identified with environmental activist groups.

Ley, B. L., et al. (2012). "Investigating CSI: Portrayals of DNA testing on a forensic crime show and their potential effects." Public Understanding of Science 21(1): 51-67.	The popularity of forensic crime shows such as CSI has fueled debate about their potential social impact. This study considers CSI's potential effects on public understandings regarding DNA testing in the context of judicial processes, the policy debates surrounding crime laboratory procedures, and the forensic science profession, as well as an effect not discussed in previous accounts: namely, the show's potential impact on public understandings of DNA and genetics more generally. To develop a theoretical foundation for research on the "CSI effect," it draws on cultivation theory, social cognitive theory, and audience reception studies. It then uses content analysis and textual analysis to illuminate how the show depicts DNA testing. The results demonstrate that CSI tends to depict DNA testing as routine, swift, useful, and reliable and that it echoes broader discourses about genetics. At times, however, the show suggests more complex ways of thinking about DNA testing and genetics.

Leydesdorff, L. and I. Hellsten (2005). "Metaphors and diaphors in science communication." Science Communication 27(1): 64-99.
	"Stem cell research " has become a subject of political discussion in recent years because of its social and ethical implications. The intellectual research program, however has a history of several decades. Therapeutic applications and patents on the basis of stem cell research became available during the 1990s. Currently, the main applications of stem cell research are found in marrow transplantation (e.g., for the treatment of leukemia). In this study, the various meanings of the term stem cell are examined in these different contexts of research, applications, and policy debates. Translation mechanisms between contexts are specified, and a quantitative indicator for the degree of codification is proposed.

Leydesdorff, L. and J. Ward (2005). "Science shops: a kaleidoscope of science-society collaborations in Europe." Public Understanding of Science 14(4): 353-372.	The science-shop model was initiated in the Netherlands in the 1970s. During the 1980s, the model spread throughout Europe, but without much coordination. The crucial idea behind the science shops involves a working relationship between knowledge-producing institutions like universities and citizen groups that need answers to relevant questions. More recently, the European Commission has funded a number of projects for taking stock of the results of science shops. Twenty-one in-depth case studies by seven science shops across Europe enable us to draw some conclusions about the variety of experiences in terms of differences among disciplines, nations, and formats of the historical institutionalization. The functions of science shops in the mediation of normative concerns with analytical perspectives can further be specified.

Lezaun, J. and L. Soneryd (2007). "Consulting citizens: technologies of elicitation and the mobility of publics." Public Understanding of Science 16(3): 279-297.	The new centrality of "the public" to the governance of science and technology has been accompanied by a widespread use of public consultation mechanisms designed to elicit from citizens relevant opinions on technoscientific matters. This paper explores the configuration of legitimate constituencies in two such exercises: the UK "GM Nation?" public debate on food biotechnology, and a Swedish "Transparency Forum" on the risks of mobile telephones. We consider the apparently paradoxical combination in these two examples of a tendency to produce static images of the public with a high valuation of mobility-of citizens and their opinions-as the key outcome of deliberation. We discuss the organizers' careful delineation of a distinction between "stakeholders" and the "general public," and their aversion to any sort of "eventfulness" in public deliberations. Finally, we introduce the classical notion of the "idiot"-the individual who minds exclusively his or her own private affairsand argue for the need to develop a new vocabulary to evaluate the politics of "listening to the public".

Li, N., et al. (2018). "How do policymakers and think tank stakeholders prioritize the risks of the nuclear fuel cycle? A semantic network analysis." Journal of Risk Research 21(5): 599-621.	In recent years, the importance of stakeholder involvement and of integrating diverse perspectives into risk management has gained increasing recognition. However, it remains a challenging task to identify all potentially relevant stakeholders and to reliably describe their deeply held beliefs regarding the risks associated with complex industrial systems. For example, the development of advanced nuclear fuel cycles presents such a case. Based on a review of policy-making literatures and a content analysis of congressional records, we identify federal agencies and nonprofit policy institutes (also known as think tanks') as key stakeholders that are representative of those actively involved in making high-level decisions on the US nuclear energy policy. Using a semantic network analysis approach, we visually delineate the thematic areas of each party's perceptions concerning fuel cycle risks. The results show that although governmental and think tank stakeholders share common concerns in areas such as nuclear waste management, the economics of nuclear facilities, and proliferation, they tend to focus on distinct aspects of each area. Moreover, while governmental stakeholders are primarily concerned with the environmental and local impacts of nuclear fuel cycles, think tank stakeholders focus more on the relative advantages and disadvantages of nuclear energy compared to other alternative energy options. Implications for risk management and risk communication are discussed.

Li, X. H. (2013). "A Comparative Analysis of Hybrid Car Advertisements in the USA and China: Desire, Globalization, and Environment." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(4): 512-528.	This paper compares hybrid car advertisements in the USA and Chinathe two largest car markets of the worldand analyzes the cultural, psychic, and historical factors that interrupt the translation of hybrids' eco-friendly appeals to China. I evoke psychoanalysis to read the unconscious structures of desire embedded in the two distinct groups of advertising discourse. My analysis shows that while the American ads seek to erase the self from a fantasy of eco-harmony, the Chinese ones try to expand and multiply the self in the technical gaze of the West. Toward environmental pollution, the American ads respond with guilt and self-blame and the Chinese react with disgust and escapism. I argue that both types of discourse are structured around a psychic loss, which is inaugurated by each culture's traumatic encounter with the technology of the motorcar.

Liakopoulos, M. (2002). "Pandora's Box or panacea? Using metaphors to create the public representations of biotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 11(1): 5-32.	This paper addresses the use of metaphors in creating public representations of biotechnology in the United Kingdom's leading quality press. Metaphors referring to biotechnology and its applications have been analyzed in press articles covering the period 1973-1996. The paper describes how metaphors can be used to popularize complex technical information while at the same time providing a highly charged message about the technology itself. The analysis draws conclusions about the content and general direction of the debate on biotechnology during the past three decades.

Liang, X., et al. (2015). "Value predispositions as perceptual filters: Comparing of public attitudes toward nanotechnology in the United States and Singapore." Public Understanding of Science 24(5): 582-600.	This study compares public attitudes toward nanotechnology in the United States and Singapore, using large-scale survey data in both countries. Results indicate that Singaporeans tend to be more knowledgeable about and familiar with nanotechnology than the U.S. public. Singaporeans tend to perceive greater benefits and fewer potential risks of nanotechnology, and to indicate greater support for government funding for nanotechnology than the U.S. public. Between the two countries, perceived familiarity with nanotechnology and the benefits and risks of the emerging technology tend to be interpreted differently through the lens of value predispositions (religiosity and deference to scientific authority) and therefore they indirectly affect public support. Specifically, the U.S. public tends to use religiosity to interpret benefits and Singaporeans are inclined to use religiosity to think about risks. Deference to scientific authority also moderates the impact of perceived familiarity with nanotechnology on funding support for the technology among the U.S. public.

Liang, Y. H., et al. (2018). "Running Out of Water! Developing a Message Typology and Evaluating Message Effects on Attitude Toward Water Conservation." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(4): 541-557.	In three phases, this study identifies and evaluates the major messages being used in communication campaigns focused on the ongoing drought in California. A literature review in Phase 1 resulted in a typology of 12 message strategies. Following this typology, trained coders in Phase 2 evaluated water conservation messages (N=100) to determine whether each message utilized one or multiple strategies. The results revealed various frequencies of strategy application; and a correlational analysis rendered a pattern of strategy use in combinations. Phase 3 focused on a controlled message experiment applying the three most relevant strategies: conservation tips, loss aversion, and evidence of drought. Analysing data sampled from California residents (N=180), conservation messages, regardless of the strategy, led to attitude change in a negative direction. Additional analyses revealed interesting patterns of combinatorial strategy effects. The results call for a re-examination of message strategies as they may lead to several unfavourable outcomes.

Liao, Y. Q., et al. (2016). "Motivators of Pro-Environmental Behavior: Examining the Underlying Processes in the Influence of Presumed Media Influence Model." Science Communication 38(1): 51-73.	Extending the influence of presumed media influence model, this study examined direct and indirect media influences on pro-environmental behavioral intentions. We empirically tested perceived media influence on others as a distinct and independent mediator between perceived media exposure of others and perceived social norms, using a nationally representative sample of 1,144 Singaporeans. Using structural equation modeling, influence of presumed media influence accounted for direct and indirect media effects on attitudes, social norms, and pro-environmental behavioral intentions. Perceived media influence on others was associated with behavioral intentions. Attitudes, descriptive, and subjective norms accounted further for this relationship. Theoretical and practical implications were discussed.

Lidskog, R. (2008). "Scientised citizens and democratised science. Re-assessing the expert-lay divide." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 69-86.	During the last decade there have been growing calls for increased public inclusion in risk regulation. This paper investigates three of these proposals for a new relationship between science and the public, namely New Production of Knowledge, Postnormal Science, and Scientific Citizenship. These all concern how science can be democratised and how new relations between expertise and citizens can be negotiated and designed. By critically discussing the similarities and differences between these proposals, this paper examines the implications of the call for public inclusion in risk regulation. By way of conclusion, some warnings are raised concerning the belief in public inclusion as a cure-all for making knowledge production and risk regulation more publicly credible and socially robust. The space created for public inclusion may work as means for legitimating decisions, diluting accountability and persuading the public, with the consequence that the expert-lay divide may be reproduced rather than transformed.

Lidstrom, S. (2018). "Sea-Level Rise in Public Science Writing: History, Science and Reductionism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(1): 15-27.	Sea-level rise is a dramatic effect of climate change, with profound implications for societies around the world. In the past few years, a rush of literary non-fiction books have appeared that aim to explain the threat of rising seas to the public. This paper critiques how sea-level rise is framed in many of those books, on two accounts. First, anthropogenic sea-level change is frequently framed by accounts of natural variations of sea level in earth history, focusing on geological rather than societal processes. Second, single and sudden floods are often used to exemplify sea-level rise in ways that draw attention away from incremental environmental change in favour of fast-paced but de-contextualized events. The paper argues that both these frames de-politicize sea-level rise and may steer public understanding and discussion away from relevant social, cultural, and ethical considerations. As examples of climate reductionism, these depictions may obstruct rather than facilitate appropriate negotiations in response to predicted sea-level rise.

Lightman, B. (2018). "The Mid-Victorian period and the Astronomical Register (1863-1886): "A medium of communication for amateurs and others'." Public Understanding of Science 27(5): 629-636.
	
Lima, A., et al. (2010). "Field trip activity in an ancient gold mine: scientific literacy in informal education." Public Understanding of Science 19(3): 322-334.	Considering informal education and field trips as important didactical elements that promote science and scientific literacy (to know, to understand, to apply science), this article presents the work carried out in the gold mines of Castromil (city of Paredes, Portugal), a region with an unquestionable richness in terms of geological heritage. The field trip involved 166 students, ranging from 10 to 21 years of age, and was organized according to Orion's model. The evaluation of the field trip was observed in three aspects: i) the construction of scientific knowledge; ii) the quality of the activities performed; and iii) the promotion of environmental education. The results were obtained through a questionnaire applied to the participants, and interviews of the two monitors responsible for the field trip. The results allow us to conclude that Orion's model was successfully applied in an informal field trip activity promoting scientific literacy.

Lin, H. S., et al. (2013). "Relationships among affective factors and preferred engagement in science-related activities." Public Understanding of Science 22(8): 941-954.	This study investigated how affective factors impact participation in science learning using structural equation modeling. Using a dataset from Taiwan, a model was obtained that showed the relationships among science-related interest, enjoyment, self-efficacy, self-concept, competency, leisure time engagement, and future interest in science. The paths relating to engagement and future interest were much stronger for interest and enjoyment than for self-efficacy and self-concept. There was no significant path between science competency and future science interest or engagement. The results suggest that the affective and cognitive pathways to scientific competency are divergent and that they might be differentially activated by different contexts and activities. This indicates that school science educators might wish to reconsider the merit of overemphasizing achievement in comparison to interest. Finally, the results suggest that the development of science competency per se may not be the best way to ensure public engagement and understanding of science.

Lin, L. X., et al. (2017). "Communicating risk in disaster risk management systems - experimental evidence of the perceived usefulness of risk descriptions." Journal of Risk Research 20(12): 1534-1553.	Disaster risk management (DRM) requires the collaboration of a variety of stakeholders working in different sectors. They depend on each other to share risk information, and effective collaboration requires efficient communication. Clearly, the communication of risk descriptions is a key issue for the success of DRM activities. This study investigated the communication of risk-related information between DRM actors, and how to present such information in order to improve its usefulness as a basis for decision-making. Two experiments were conducted to investigate the issue. The first related to the type of hazard, while the second examined the presentation of likelihood and consequences. We addressed two research questions: Does the presentation of a risk description influence its perceived usefulness for decision-making in a DRM system? If so, which format is perceived as most useful? Our findings indicated that the type of hazard did not affect perceived usefulness to any significant extent. However, the presentation of likelihood and consequences did have a significant effect. These results indicate that the presentation of risk information greatly influences stakeholders' ability to make well-informed decisions. Specifically, quantitative scale and semi-quantitative ranking scale formats are perceived as most useful.

Lin, S. J. (2013). "Perceived Impact of a Documentary Film: An Investigation of the First-Person Effect and Its Implications for Environmental Issues." Science Communication 35(6): 708-733.	This study explores the factors that moderate first-person perception of socially desirable messages and the behavioral consequences of the perceived self-other perceptual disparity. A total of 255 participants watched An Inconvenient Truth and completed a survey thereafter. The participants acknowledged themselves to be more receptive to the film than others and acted on this perceived difference by supporting the distribution of the film. The message desirability, perceived message quality and sensation value, sensation-seeking tendency, and issue knowledge not only affected assessments of the perceived effect on the self and others differently but also increased the willingness to take action and stop global warming.

Lin, T. T. C. (2012). "Cross-Platform Framing and Cross-Cultural Adaptation: Examining Elephant Conservation in Thailand." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(2): 193-211.	This case study investigates cross-platform framing process and framing alignment strategies of the world famous elephant conservation NGO. It examines how the intercultural adaptation facilitates the frame transformation against entrenched domesticated elephant traditions in Thailand. Besides web observation, this study conducted two field trips to interview the NGO staff and conservation experts, and observed human-elephant interaction. Enhancing the understanding of ecotourism, this study expands the framing theory by incorporating cross-platform and cross-cultural adaptation factors and provides insights of an effective Asian ecotourism model which transcends cultural differences and overcomes resistance by disseminating culturally sensitive and integrated framing strategies through various communication channels.

Lin, Y. R., et al. (2017). "Tracking and Analyzing Individual Distress Following Terrorist Attacks Using Social Media Streams." Risk Analysis 37(8): 1580-1605.	Risk research has theorized a number of mechanisms that might trigger, prolong, or potentially alleviate individuals' distress following terrorist attacks. These mechanisms are difficult to examine in a single study, however, because the social conditions of terrorist attacks are difficult to simulate in laboratory experiments and appropriate preattack baselines are difficult to establish with surveys. To address this challenge, we propose the use of computational focus groups and a novel analysis framework to analyze a social media stream that archives user history and location. The approach uses time-stamped behavior to quantify an individual's preattack behavior after an attack has occurred, enabling the assessment of time-specific changes in the intensity and duration of an individual's distress, as well as the assessment of individual and social-level covariates. To exemplify the methodology, we collected over 18 million tweets from 15,509 users located in Paris on November 13, 2015, and measured the degree to which they expressed anxiety, anger, and sadness after the attacks. The analysis resulted in findings that would be difficult to observe through other methods, such as that news media exposure had competing, time-dependent effects on anxiety, and that gender dynamics are complicated by baseline behavior. Opportunities for integrating computational focus group analysis with traditional methods are discussed.

Lindaas, O. A. and K. A. Pettersen (2016). "Risk analysis and Black Swans: two strategies for de-blackening." Journal of Risk Research 19(10): 1231-1245.	With his book The Black Swan: The Impact of the Highly Improbable, Nassim N. Taleb brought the Black Swan metaphor to the center of risk analysis debates. His main thesis is that the course of the world is determined by the sudden coming of a small number of high impact events whose occurrences are detectable only through hindsight. When relying on prediction, risk analysis is doomed to fail. The standard route of refutation and rehabilitation of predictive practices has been to oppose Taleb's worldview. In this article, we develop an alternative route of refutation in which we separate Taleb's claim of unpredictability from his worldview. Moreover, in our justification of the possibilities of predicting in a Black Swan world, we favor an extension of the Black Swan domain so that it includes unknown knowns in addition to unknown unknowns. The article advocates for a bridging of perspectives in which predicting not only involves the sphere of knowledge, but also the sphere of imagination, bringing the risk communication to the fore. Related to the analysis of extraordinary high-impact events, the merits of an imaginative perspective on prediction is illustrated by the terrorist attacks in Norway on July 22 2011, and some key challenges for further developing such a perspective within risk analysis are sketched.

Lindell, M. K. and S. N. Hwang (2008). "Households' perceived personal risk and responses in a multihazard environment." Risk Analysis 28(2): 539-556.	This study proposed and tested a multistage model of household response to three hazards-flood, hurricane, and toxic chemical release-in Harris County Texas. The model, which extends Lindell and Perry's (1992, 2004) Protective Action Decision Model, proposed a basic causal chain from hazard proximity through hazard experience and perceived personal risk to expectations of continued residence in the home and adoption of household hazard adjustments. Data from 321 households generally supported the model, but the mediating effects of hazard experience and perceived personal risk were partial rather than complete. In addition, the data suggested that four demographic variables-gender, age, income, and ethnicity-affect the basic causal chain at different points.

Lindell, M. K. and R. W. Perry (2012). "The Protective Action Decision Model: Theoretical Modifications and Additional Evidence." Risk Analysis 32(4): 616-632.	The Protective Action Decision Model (PADM) is a multistage model that is based on findings from research on people's responses to environmental hazards and disasters. The PADM integrates the processing of information derived from social and environmental cues with messages that social sources transmit through communication channels to those at risk. The PADM identifies three critical predecision processes (reception, attention, and comprehension of warnings or exposure, attention, and interpretation of environmental/social cues)that precede all further processing. The revised model identifies three core perceptionsthreat perceptions, protective action perceptions, and stakeholder perceptionsthat form the basis for decisions about how to respond to an imminent or long-term threat. The outcome of the protective action decision-making process, together with situational facilitators and impediments, produces a behavioral response. In addition to describing the revised model and the research on which it is based, this article describes three applications (development of risk communication programs, evacuation modeling, and adoption of long-term hazard adjustments) and identifies some of the research needed to address unresolved issues.

Linden, J. (1996). "Theoretical and methodological questions concerning a contextual approach to psychosocial issues of working life - Development of a diary-in-group method." Science Communication 18(1): 59-79.	A participative approach in dealing with problems of the psychosocial work environment poses theoretical and methodological questions that are examined from a general epistemological perspective, with particular focus being placed on tensions between various forms of knowledge. This article demonstrates that emphasis on contextual aspects of knowledge is important both from a theoretical and a practical standpoint A diary-in-group method aimed at handling problems of contextuality is presented. An account of its use within a study of the psychosocial work environment of theater actors is provided.

Linden, T. (2003). "Medical journalism: Exposing fact, fiction, fraud." Public Understanding of Science 12(1): 110-111.
	
Lindenfeld, L. A., et al. (2012). "Creating a Place for Environmental Communication Research in Sustainability Science." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(1): 23-43.	Environmental communication scholarship is critical to the success of sustainability science. This essay outlines three pressing areas of intersection between the two fields. First, environmental communication scholarship on public participation processes is essential for sustainability science's efforts to link knowledge with action. Second, sustainability science requires collaborations across diverse institutional and disciplinary boundaries. Environmental communication can play a vital role in reorganizing the production and application of disciplinary knowledge. Third, science communication bridges environmental communication and sustainability science and can move communication processes away from one-way transmission models toward engaged approaches. The essay draws on Maine's Sustainability Solutions Initiative to illustrate key outcomes of a large project that has integrated environmental communication into sustainability science.

Lindsey, R., et al. (2018). "Response by Lindsey, Herring, and Greenhalgh to "A Missed Opportunity?: NOAA's Use of Social Media to Communicate Climate Science"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 284-286.
	
Linke, S. (2012). "Contexts constrain science in the public: How the sociobiology debate was (not) presented in the German press." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 740-758.	This article reports on a media study on the coverage of sociobiology (SB) in the German media. The analyses show a decoupling between the academic discussion and the German media coverage: when the scientific debates about SB were at their height (late 1970s), nearly no reporting occurred in the German press, whereas from the middle of the 1990s onwards, when the academic discussion had settled, SB was presented increasingly often. The case reveals the importance of cultural contexts in shaping popular science coverage, making SB a non-issue in the German media at the times of its most intense scientific debate. Factors contributing to this particular situation in German academia and popular culture are discussed. Comparisons with other studies show how the late renaissance of SB in Germany in the late 1990s is due to media attention towards the new biosciences.

Lion, R., et al. (2002). "Priorities in information desire about unknown risks." Risk Analysis 22(4): 765-776.	Research on risk perception aims to explain how people perceive risks in order to better communicate about them. Most of this research has tended to view people as passive risk perceivers. However, if confronted with an unknown risk, people can also actively seek information. The main purpose of this study was to investigate what kind of risk information people desire when confronted with an unknown risk and how this desire for information relates to the main dimensions underlying risk perception. Nine focus-group interviews were conducted. The main results of the focus groups were backed up by a paper-and-pencil questionnaire that was distributed among a random sample of 500 households in the Netherlands. Overall, people desire information with which they can determine the personal relevance of the risk confronting them. This pattern is similar to appraisal steps described by health behavior models. The focus-group results provide a dynamic picture of the way risk aspects might interact to create a final risk judgment.

Lischinsky, A. (2015). "What Is the Environment Doing in My Report? Analyzing the Environment-as-Stakeholder Thesis through Corpus Linguistics." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(4): 539-559.	This paper seeks to explore whether business organizations' claims to regard the natural environment as a stakeholder are consistent with the way in which the environment is represented in their corporate social responsibility reporting. It applies corpus linguistic methods to analyze statistical regularities and differences in the discursive construction of core stakeholders, such as customers and employees, and that of the natural environment. Results show that the representation of the environment is not characterized by the agency and capacity for engagement that characterizes other stakeholders. While organizations overtly acknowledge a duty toward the environment, the dominant lexical and grammatical patterns in which it is represented tend to obscure the organization's responsibilities and emphasize its mitigating actions instead. Although the argument for regarding the environment as a stakeholder is based on the fact that it places objective and compelling demands on our actions, we look in vain for recognition of such demands in organizational reporting.

Listerman, T. (2010). "Framing of science issues in opinion-leading news: international comparison of biotechnology issue coverage." Public Understanding of Science 19(1): 5-15.	This paper tests how the biotechnology issue, as an example of a major contemporary scientific debate, was framed and reframed by opinion-leading newspapers in Germany, Britain and the United States during the years 2000-2. The research design suggests a theoretical foundation of structure frame categories on the article level, combined with frames on the argument level. Argument framing is analyzed in actors' statements and journalists' own comments. Article framing is analyzed as structures and interpretative patterns in the whole news item. Comparative and cluster analysis of structure frames on the article level, argument frames, and single attributes of the text, shows that certain reframing takes place when media attention increases, in the form of a stronger ethical discourse in Germany and a more prominent public discourse in Britain. In the US opinion-leading press, the scientific-economic discourse is consequent.

Littmann, M. (2005). "Courses in science writing as literature." Public Understanding of Science 14(1): 103-112.	The best nonfiction science books and articles demonstrate that accurate science can be presented to the public so that it is understandable, yet as gripping as fine fiction. Some of these works serve as examples for students taking science-writing workshops. However, programs in science writing, journalism, English, the sciences, and medicine may benefit from offering a course that explores science writing as literature. Nonfiction books published each year outnumber fiction books by more than six to one, yet relatively few nonfiction literature courses exist, and science-writing-as-literature courses are rare, although popular with students. Courses in science writing as literature are known to have been taught at six universities. Courses have varied in emphasis (biology, medicine, general) and approach (one compared scientists and nonscientists as science writers). This report surveys the readings and features of existing courses.

Liu, B. F., et al. (2017). "Preparing for the worst: public perceptions of risk management innovations." Journal of Risk Research 20(11): 1394-1417.	Scholars often call for research on the public's involvement in crisis and risk mitigation. Yet, before the public can be persuaded to become involved in new mitigation initiatives, risk managers must first understand how members of the public perceive such initiatives. Grounded in diffusion of innovation (DOI) theory, this study presents insights from 70 adult residents of a US urban metro area through focus group research. Findings yield insights about public perceptions of risk management innovations including that greater good' incentives can motivate interest in innovations (more so than financial incentives), thereby extending DOI theory. In addition, participants suggested mechanisms for facilitating government transparency to encourage program participation, along with additional insights about involving the public in government-sponsored risk management innovations.

Liu, H. and S. Priest (2009). "Understanding public support for stem cell research: media communication, interpersonal communication and trust in key actors." Public Understanding of Science 18(6): 704-718.	This paper analyzes data from a 2005 telephone survey of 1200 people in the US that included questions about attitudes toward stem cell research and a broad range of communication variables. After all controls, trust in university scientists and religious leaders, exposure to national television news, familiarity, and religious service attendance produced statistically significant main effects on perception of research benefits, together explaining about 31% of the variance. Interpersonal communication may also have contingent effects.

Liu, Y., et al. (2018). "Threshold Evaluation of Emergency Risk Communication for Health Risks Related to Hazardous Ambient Temperature." Risk Analysis 38(10): 2208-2221.	Emergency risk communication (ERC) programs that activate when the ambient temperature is expected to cross certain extreme thresholds are widely used to manage relevant public health risks. In practice, however, the effectiveness of these thresholds has rarely been examined. The goal of this study is to test if the activation criteria based on extreme temperature thresholds, both cold and heat, capture elevated health risks for all-cause and cause-specific mortality and morbidity in the Minneapolis-St. Paul Metropolitan Area. A distributed lag nonlinear model (DLNM) combined with a quasi-Poisson generalized linear model is used to derive the exposure-response functions between daily maximum heat index and mortality (1998-2014) and morbidity (emergency department visits; 2007-2014). Specific causes considered include cardiovascular, respiratory, renal diseases, and diabetes. Six extreme temperature thresholds, corresponding to 1st-3rd and 97th-99th percentiles of local exposure history, are examined. All six extreme temperature thresholds capture significantly increased relative risks for all-cause mortality and morbidity. However, the cause-specific analyses reveal heterogeneity. Extreme cold thresholds capture increased mortality and morbidity risks for cardiovascular and respiratory diseases and extreme heat thresholds for renal disease. Percentile-based extreme temperature thresholds are appropriate for initiating ERC targeting the general population. Tailoring ERC by specific causes may protect some but not all individuals with health conditions exacerbated by hazardous ambient temperature exposure.

Lo, A. Y. (2016). "National income and environmental concern: Observations from 35 countries." Public Understanding of Science 25(7): 873-890.	National income produces mixed impacts on public environmental concern. In a cross-national survey, environmental concern was measured in terms of propensity to act and environmental risk perception. Results of a multilevel regression analysis show that these two measures respond to gross domestic product per capita in opposite ways. Citizens of advanced industrial countries are more likely than those of lower-income countries to contribute to environmental protection. However, they are less likely to see the harmful impacts on the environment as very dangerous. Using an indicator of national adaptive capacity, this article demonstrates that environmental risk perception is a function of a country's estimated capacity for coping with condition changes. The stronger sense of collective security among citizens of wealthier nations offers a possible explanation for the negative effects of national income. These results indicate the complex relationship between development and public environmental concern across countries.

Lo, A. Y. and C. Y. Jim (2015). "Come rain or shine? Public expectation on local weather change and differential effects on climate change attitude." Public Understanding of Science 24(8): 928-942.	Tailored messages are instrumental to climate change communication. Information about the global threat can be localised' by demonstrating its linkage with local events. This research ascertains the relationship between climate change attitude and perception of local weather, based on a survey involving 800 Hong Kong citizens. Results indicate that concerns about climate change increase with expectations about the likelihood and impacts of local weather change. Climate change believers attend to all three types of adverse weather events, namely, temperature rises, tropical cyclones and prolonged rains. Climate scepticism, however, is not associated with expectation about prolonged rains. Differential spatial orientations are a possible reason. Global climate change is an unprecedented and distant threat, whereas local rain is a more familiar and localised weather event. Global climate change should be articulated in terms that respect local concerns. Localised framing may be particularly effective for engaging individuals holding positive views about climate change science.

Lo, Y. Y. and H. P. Peters (2015). "Taiwanese life scientists less "medialized" than their Western colleagues." Public Understanding of Science 24(1): 6-22.	The article presents results from surveys of life scientists in Taiwan (n = 270) and in Germany (n = 326). Fewer Taiwanese than German researchers have frequent contact with the media and they rate their experiences with journalists less positively. Furthermore, they are less prepared to adapt to journalistic expectations and to a greater extent than German researchers they expect journalists to consider scientific criteria in their reporting. These findings are interpreted in Weingart's medialization of science framework as indicators of lower medialization of science in Taiwan than in Germany. However, Taiwanese scientists are more willing than German scientists to accept journalistic simplification at the expense of accuracy. This is explained as an adaptation to the media system and to the perceived scientific literacy of the media audience. We hypothesize that cultural differences regarding the relative priority of relational vs. rational communication goals may also contribute to more tolerance of journalistic simplification in Taiwan.

Lock, M., et al. (2006). "When it runs in the family: putting susceptibility genes in perspective." Public Understanding of Science 15(3): 277-300.	Using the genetics of late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) as illustrative, this paper argues for a reflexive critique of the involved science, specifically in connection with estimations of increased risk. Following a review of social science commentary on genetic testing and screening in general, current scientific understanding about the molecular and population genetics of LOAD is then presented. The results of open-ended interviews conducted with first-degree relatives of individuals diagnosed with LOAD at two study sites follow. It is shown that the majority of people interviewed embrace the idea of complexity in connection with Alzheimer's disease causation and that many draw on a concept of "blended inheritance" with respect to the disease that "runs" in their family. It is argued that knowledge about risk obtained from genetic testing for LOAD rarely usurps other forms of understanding, but is nested by interviewees into previously held ideas about who in the family is most at risk for the disease.

Locke, S. (1997). "Defining science: A rhetoric of demarcation - Taylor,CA." Public Understanding of Science 6(4): 429-430.
	
Locke, S. (1999). "Golem science and the public understanding of science: from deficit to dilemma." Public Understanding of Science 8(2): 75-92.
	"Golem science" is Harry Collins and Trevor Pinch's humanized image of science, filled with irresolution, that they wish to substitute for the "god-like" image of definitive knowledge characteristic of public presentations of science. This god-like image creates unrealistic expectations that fuel "anti-scientific" reactions when unmet. This paper argues that the "flip-flop" view set forth by Collins and Pinch is a deficit model that positions the public as sociologically incompetent. It reflects the dilemma of professional social scientists who deconstruct science whilst appealing to the authority of science. This dilemma is an outcome of a deeper tension within science between the universal status of knowledge claims and the particular, human conditions of knowledge production. Drawing on discursive (or rhetorical) psychology, I show that this tension plays out in the rhetorical organization of scientific discourse in the form of a characteristic contrast between empiricist and contingent repertoires. A similar tension is discernible in everyday, mundane reasoning, which suggests that a golem image of science is already present in commonsense understanding alongside the "god-like" image. Thus, the public understanding of science is dilemmatically constituted, providing the conditions of argumentation with science seen in "antiscience"-itself a "folk devil" and rhetorical label. The analysis in this paper is illustrated using the example of creationism, which arises from an argumentative engagement with science that draws on the resources provided by the dilemma of science in conjunction with other resources drawn from Christianity. There is no simple "flip-flop" here. Further research into rhetorical reasoning in public understanding is called for on the grounds that greater appreciation of this is needed alongside golem science to improve relations between scientists and the public.

Locke, S. (1999). "Forbidden archeology's impact: How a controversial new book shocked the scientific community and became an underground classic." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 68-69.
	
Locke, S. (2001). "Scientific and medical portraits 1660-2000." Public Understanding of Science 10(3): 336-338.
	
Locke, S. (2005). "Fantastically reasonable: ambivalence in the representation of science and technology in super-hero comics." Public Understanding of Science 14(1): 25-46.	A long-standing contrast in academic discussions of science concerns its perceived disenchanting or enchanting public impact. In one image, science displaces magical belief in unknowable entities with belief in knowable forces and processes and reduces all things to a single technical measure. In the other, science is itself magically transcendent, expressed in technological adulation and an image of scientists as wizards or priests. This paper shows that these contrasting images are also found in representations of science in super-hero comics, which, given their lowly status in Anglo-American culture, would seem an unlikely place to find such commonality with academic discourse. It is argued that this is evidence that the contrast constitutes an ambivalence arising from the dilemmas that science poses; they are shared rhetorics arising from and reflexively feeding a set of broad cultural concerns. This is explored through consideration of representations of science at a number of levels in the comics, with particular focus on the science-magic constellation, and enchanted and disenchanted imagery in representations of technology and scientists. It is concluded that super-hero comics are one cultural arena where the public meaning of science is actively worked out, an activity that unites "expert" and "non-expert" alike.

Locke, S. (2013). "Colouring in the "black-box": Alternative renderings of scientific visualisations in two comic book cosmologies." Public Understanding of Science 22(3): 304-320.	Two somewhat contrasting views of public uses of scientific visualisations argue that they are "black-boxed" with meaning given by the scientific community or they are "polysemic" with meaning given by the context of presentation. This paper argues that whether they are treated as black-boxed or not and in what manner this is done is itself part of the meaning given by context. Thus, "black-boxing" is done not only by scientists but also by members of the public. The argument is illustrated by reference to two recent comic books, Dave Sim's Cerebus and Alan Moore's Promethea, in which the authors present cosmological visions of the universe using scientific visualisations to create a sense of realism. From analysis of their use of images of planet Earth and the human foetus it is argued that, although the images are black-boxed, the authors re-work them aesthetically to suit their specific moral and cosmological views.

Lockwood, A. (2016). "Graphs of grief and other green feelings: the uses of affect in the study of environmental communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 734-748.	How can theories of affect and felt emotions be useful in studying the communication of environmental crises? Beginning from tears spilt over a graph of transgressed planetary boundaries published in an academic paper, this article explores the presentation in graphic visual forms of affective imagery and a growing sophistication amongst scientists, policymakers and activist communicators in the visualization of information, data and stories employed to carry the often difficult and complex messages of current earth systems crises. Critically, this article attends to the "emotion work"of such images. Taking a lead from cultural sociology and attempting to elucidate the relationship between societies under pressure and its choice of texts, this article considers the environmental documentary Cowspiracy [Anderson, K., & Kuhn, K. (2014). Cowspiracy. San Francisco, CA: AUM Films & First Spark Media.] to ask questions of affect's relation to expressions of the earth systems crisis, which is also a crisis of culture.

Loefstedt, R. E. and P. Six (2008). "What environmental and technological risk communication research and health risk research can learn from each other." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 141-167.	The study of risk perception and communication has emerged in several disciplines and fields, and there has not been strong convergence between them, especially in Europe and specifically in Britain. The lack of connection between, for example, the fields of health risk and environmental and technological risk, and still more with respect to fears of crime or old age poverty or privacy violation, has meant that theories have not been shown to be adequate, and practical prescriptions for conflict containment and communication have not been made robust. This article examines the roots of the fragmentation, examining the particular case of the relationship between health and environmental/technological risk studies, considering why the flow of ideas and methods has been so limited, and much of it in a rather surprising direction. The paper concludes by offering some principles that could inform a strategy for more integrated research on risk perception and communication.

Lofstedt, R. (2009). "Risk communication and the FSA: the food colourings case." Journal of Risk Research 12(5): 537-557.	Food colourings and flavourings have a long history. Spices and preservatives have been added to foods for millennia in order to make them last longer and taste better. Herbs, spices, pepper and salt, and other natural flavours and preservatives remain popular to this day. But over the last century or so the food and drinks industry has in many cases replaced or added to naturally occurring preservatives and colourings with synthetic compounds. All natural and artificial colours, flavours and preservatives that are added to food and drink have been tested and approved as safe by the regulatory authorities in the western world. However, campaigners in several nations, particularly the UK, have attempted to have some artificial colours and preservatives banned on public safety grounds, ranging from alleged skin allergies and asthma to hyperactive children. None of these allegations has been substantiated for any individual substance by the regulatory authorities. This paper evaluates how the UK Food Standards Agency (FSA) communicated the scientific findings of the so-called Southampton study, which claimed to demonstrate a link between the consumption of a mixture of six artificial colours and one preservative and hyperactivity in children, and was published in September 2007 in the medical journal, The Lancet. The study is based on a content analysis of UK-based newspapers from March 2007 to July 2008, as well as interviews with staff at the UK FSA, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), industry representatives, academics (including Professor Jim Stevenson who was the supervisor of the food colourings study at Southampton University) and campaign groups.

Lofstedt, R. (2013). "Communicating Food Risks in an Era of Growing Public Distrust: Three Case Studies." Risk Analysis 33(2): 192-202.	The communication and regulation of risk has changed significantly over the past 30 years in Europe and to a noticeable but lesser extent in the United States. In Europe, this is partly due to a series of regulatory mishaps, ranging from mad cow disease in the United Kingdom to contamination of the blood supply in France. In the United States, general public confidence in the American government has been gradually declining for more than three decades, driven by a mix of cultural and political conflicts like negative political advertising, a corrosive news media, and cuts in regulatory budgets. While the former approach is based on an objective assessment of the risk, the latter is driven more by the perception of the risk, consumer sentiment, political will, and sectoral advocacy. In this article, the author examines three U.S.-based food case studies (acrylamide, bisphenol A, and artificial food colorings) where regulations at the local and state levels are increasingly being based on perceived risk advocacy rather than on the most effective response to the risk, be it to food safety or public health, as defined by regulatory interpretation of existing data. In the final section, the author puts forward a series of recommendations for how U.S.-based regulators can best handle those situations where the perceived risk is markedly different from the fact-based risk, such as strengthening the communication departments of food regulatory agencies, training officials in risk communication, and working more proactively with neutral third-party experts.

Lofstedt, R. (2014). "A possible way forward for evidence-based and risk-informed policy-making in Europe: a personal view." Journal of Risk Research 17(9): 1089-1108.	European regulatory policy, especially in the chemicals and environmental sectors, is not as predictable, evidence-based, risk-informed, or clear as it could be. There are a number of reasons for this, all somewhat related to the new more adversarial model of regulation. This includes the involvement of influential environmental non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and member states (such as Denmark and Sweden) that are highly active in environmental and chemical control. In addition, we see the rise of the campaigning journalist or newspaper that often bases their articles on emotions rather than scientific facts - the UK Daily Mail newspaper is a typical example. Finally, a number of academics, think tanks, and stakeholders tend to amplify their research findings if there is a nice 'news hook' (such as this chemical may cause cancer, or this pharmaceutical is unsafe) without presenting their research findings within a wider context. In this article, I first briefly outline the history of environmental policy-making in Europe then discuss the rise of the new model of adversarial regulation. Secondly, I provide evidence of some of the unintended consequences of the new model, and give a couple of case study examples. In the concluding part of the essay, I offer possible solutions that could aid in helping to make chemical and environmental control policy in Europe more evidence-based and risk-informed.

Lofstedt, R. (2015). "Effective risk communication and CCS: the road to success in Europe." Journal of Risk Research 18(6): 675-691.
	
Lofstedt, R., et al. (2011). "The changing nature of communication and regulation of risk in Europe." Journal of Risk Research 14(4): 409-429.	The regulation and communication of risk have changed significantly over the past 20 years or so, partially as a result of a number of regulatory scandals in Europe and elsewhere, which have led to greater public distrust of regulators and policy-makers. This increase in public distrust has resulted in a phasing-out of consensual-style regulation, and the emergence of a newer model of regulation based on variables including public participation, transparency and increasingly powerful non-governmental organisations (NGOs). This paper discusses some of the consequences of adopting this new model of regulation through a series of case studies.

Lofstedt, R. and D. Way (2016). "Transparency and trust in the European pharmaceutical sector: outcomes from an experimental study." Journal of Risk Research 19(9): 1082-1103.	Many European pharmaceutical regulators have committed to a more open, inclusive, and transparent model of regulatory decision-making in recent years. Yet, based on little empirical evidence, they have overwhelmingly adopted fishbowl' transparency measures, the full disclosure of information without explanatory information or contextualization' (e.g. heightening access to raw data). This paper conveys recent findings from an open-ended questionnaire with 200 face-to-face interviews carried out in the UK and the Netherlands. The study provides evidence on how members of the public are likely to react to fishbowl' transparency policies and receiving decontextualized data. After showing respondents raw data from a periodic safety update report that regulators are proposing to proactively release, the survey found they were shocked, concerned, and more worried, while many said they would reconsider taking their medicines and seek further advice. Based on these findings, the authors argue that enhancing transparency' needs to be integrated with effective, evidence- and science-based benefit/risk communication.

Lofstedt, R. E. (2006). "How can we make food risk communication better: Where are we and where are we going?" Journal of Risk Research 9(8): 869-890.	Over the past number of years the reporting of food scares, particularly in European context, have grown in prevalence. These scares are more often than not amplified by the media leading to greater pressure on regulators, industry and other stakeholders to communicate the actual risks associated with the food issue in question accurately. The aims of this paper is three fold: firstly, provide a brief background on the history of risk communication itself. Secondly, to summarise some of the main theoretical avenues that are presently favoured by the wider academic ( risk) community. The final section of the paper provides research ideas regarding what academics working in the food risk communication area may wish to look at now. Among the issues highlighted include addressing the issue of media amplification, rebuilding public trust, and better communicating uncertainty.

Lofstedt, R. E. (2007). "The 'plateau-ing' of the European better regulation agenda: An analysis of activities carried out by the barroso commission." Journal of Risk Research 10(4): 423-447.	This paper examines the European Commission's (EC) Better Regulation Agenda, from the time that President Barroso came to power - in November 2004 - to the 2006 summer recess. It particularly focuses on whether the Commission's regulatory thinking has moved away from the precautionary principle and towards Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA), something I predicted in 2004 (Lofstedt, 2004). The article summarises the papers and communications in the Better Regulation area put forward by the Commission since November 2004, and makes a number of observations about how the Better Regulation Agenda may develop in the future. In conclusion I argue that the Commission's Better Regulation Agenda has plateaued. Commissioner Verheugen will not be successful in pushing the Agenda further forward because of issues such as REACH and opposition from member states, notably France. It is based on a combination of desk research and interviews with policy-makers, regulators, academics and stakeholders who have been involved either in shaping or fighting the Better Regulation Agenda.

Lofstedt, R. E. (2010). "Risk communication guidelines for Europe: a modest proposition." Journal of Risk Research 13(1): 87-109.	The purpose of this paper is to firstly develop a series of so-called risk communication guidelines via the risk perception and communication literatures that in turn can be used by media, industry and regulators. In the second part of the paper, the draft guidelines are tested against a number of food scares ranging from aspartame to Sudan 1, and semicarbazides in baby food. In the final section of the paper, the usefulness of the guidelines is analysed and a number of key recommendations put forward.

Lofstedt, R. E. and O. Renn (1997). "The Brent Spar controversy: An example of risk communication gone wrong." Risk Analysis 17(2): 131-136.	This perspective piece uses the theories and ideas of risk communication to shed light on the reasons why the proposed dumping of Brent Spar in the U.K. offshore waters caused such an international uproar. We postulate that the Brent Spar crisis is a classic example of risk communication gone wrong. Had the sinking of the storage buoy not been amplified by the media and the environmental group Greenpeace, and had not the U.K. Government nor Shell come across as distrustful it would probably have taken place without any public notice. We examine some of the main reasons why Greenpeace succeeded in its risk communication and Shell/the U.K. Government failed. We conclude with a discussion concerning some of the risk communication lessons learned from this crisis.

Lofstedt, R. E. V. and J. K. Wardman (2016). "State of the art transparency: lessons from Europe and North America." Journal of Risk Research 19(9): 1079-1081.
	
Logan, J. and I. D. Graham (1998). "Toward a comprehensive interdisciplinary model of health care research use." Science Communication 20(2): 227-246.	Numerous health care disciplines have noted that insufficient research evidence is used in clinical practice. This situation denies optimal care to patients and potentially increases system costs. A practical theoretical framework for policymakers intent on promoting an evidence-based approach to the transfer and use of research findings in clinical practice settings is presented. The Ottawa Model of Research Use (OMRU) has a comprehensive interdisciplinary focus and consists of sire key elements: the practice environment potential adopters of the evidence, the evidence-based innovation, research transfer strategies, the evidence adoption and health-related and other outcomes. Model elements and the interactive relationships among them are described.

Logan, R. A. (1999). "Worlds apart: How the distance between science and journalism threatens America's future." Science Communication 20(3): 337-343.
	
Logan, R. A. (2001). "Science mass communication - Its conceptual history." Science Communication 23(2): 135-163.	This article provides a conceptual history of science mass communication, which is seen as divided into the scientific literacy and interactive science traditions. The origins of the ideas that underlie the scientific literacy and interactive science traditions, as well as some of the issues researchers have raised, are introduced. The author argues the two traditions are not mutually exclusive, although the interactive tradition is a response to the applied problems within the scientific literacy model. It is argued that the pace of research might be accelerated if there were a more comprehensive collaboration among science communication, health communication, and risk communication scholarship.

Logan, R. A. (2007). "The stem cell controversy: Debating the issues." Science Communication 29(1): 128-131.
	
Logan, R. A., et al. (2004). "Elite sources, context, and news topics - How two Korean newspapers covered a public health crisis." Science Communication 25(4): 364-398.	A content analysis of the coverage of a public health crisis in Korea from September 1999 to December 2000 explored six hypotheses about news reporting and topic selection mostly derived from qualitatively based literature. The findings suggest that two Korean daily newspapers (Chosun Ilbo and Hankyoreh) emphasized governmental officials and physicians as news sources, underemphasized other news sources, and limited in-depth reporting. The study's findings appear to support prior assertions in the international literature that critique news media performance. However Chosun Ilbo and Hankyoreh used a range of sources and provided some multidimensional news coverage during the public health crisis. While both newspapers depended on governmental officials and physicians as news sources and tended to provide less in-depth coverage, the overall findings do not reveal a pattern of journalistic neglect.

Logan, R. A., et al. (2004). "Prevailing impressions of social actors in Korean news coverage of a public health crisis." Science Communication 25(4): 399-416.	A content analysis of coverage of a Korean public health crisis from September 1999 to December 2000 explored four hypotheses regarding how major social actors were depicted within two national newspapers, Chosun Ilbo, a conservative daily, and Hankyoreh, a more liberal, youth-oriented daily. The findings failed to support (my of the four hypotheses. The coverage of major actors tended to range from unfavorable in Hankyoreh to equivocal in Chosun Ilbo. The study, suggests that (1) the depiction of social actors was different between leading Korean news organizations and (2) a one-dimensional, broad characterization of the Korean news media's alleged biases over time was difficult to validate. The stud), also implies that a tendency to uniformly characterize the depiction of social actors by all national news organizations is difficult in Korea and, perhaps, in similar cultural contexts.

Logan, R. A., et al. (2000). "Science and medical coverage in the Los Angeles Times and The Washington Post - A six-year perspective." Science Communication 22(1): 5-26.	A content analysis of the science, medical, and environmental news reported in the Los Angeles Times and The Washington Post in biennial periods from 1989 to 1995 explored seven hypotheses about science reporting, news selection, and writing that were derived from the qualitatively based literature. Outcome variables were the percentage of news stories that are generated by events or are episodically generated, of news stories that are generated by science issues, of news stories with an embedded human interest component, of news stories with an embedded educational/informative component, of conflicts between scientists embedded as a writing motif, of news stories with a focus on pioneer science, and of news stories with a focus on textbook science. Five of the seven hypotheses with regard to the overall frequencies of science-reporting motifs within both newspapers were rejected. Expected qualitative patterns received only partial and equivocal support within the rime periods surveyed. The findings suggest that science journalism performance, if assessed over longer period of lime, may vary from some qualitative case-study presumptions. Case studies of science news may not reflect a news organization's overall reporting, editing, and news selection trends, which appear to be more broadly prudent and responsible within the newspapers surveyed than some previous scholarship suggests.

Logan, R. A., et al. (2000). "Prevailing impressions in science and medical news - A content analysis of the Los Angeles Times and The Washington Post." Science Communication 22(1): 27-45.	In a content analysis, the authors assess the prevailing impressions reward social actors in the coverage of science and biomedical news in the Los Angeles Times and The Washington Post during biennial periods from 1989 to 1995. The social actors and outcome variables studied were favorability toward science and medical professionals, the health care delivery system, science and medicine as social institutions, industry, government, and public interest groups. The study found that prevailing impressions toward industry government, the health care delivery system, science and medical professionals, science and medicine as social institutions, and public interest groups were within a middle or ascribed equivocal range for both newspapers during all the time periods surveyed. The findings challenge some qualitative, case-study-based scholarship that suggests prevailing impressions are skewed in highly favorable or unfavorable directions toward social actors in science reporting.

Lomax, G. P. (2000). "From breeder reactors to butterflies: Risk, culture, and biotechnology." Risk Analysis 20(5): 747-753.	Social theories of risk suggest that a combination of scientific and cultural perspectives converge to influence risk perception. This article first surveys sociological perspectives suggesting that risks from modern technological development have become predominant concerns in the social consciousness. Particular attention is given to those theses describing how social elements work to create perception of risks in relation to new technologies. The themes that emerge from this survey are then related to comtemporary debates concerning biotechnology. Specific attention is given to recent controversies regarding genetically modified crops, and parallels are drawn between debates over nuclear power and biotechnology. A procedural ethic for public discourse and decision making over the diffusion of genetically modified foods is offered. Ethical and social theories are linked with the hope that by recognizing the social dimensions of debates over new technologies a broader framework for conducting risk analysis may emerge.

Long, J. and B. Fischhoff (2000). "Setting risk priorities: A formal model." Risk Analysis 20(3): 339-351.	This article presents a model designed to capture the major aspects of setting priorities among risks, a common task in government and industry. The model has both design features, under the control of the rankers (e.g., how success is evaluated), and context features, properties of the situations that they are trying to understand (e.g., how quickly uncertainty can be reduced). The model is demonstrated in terms of two extreme ranking strategies. The first, sequential risk ranking, devotes all its resources, in a given period, to learning more about a single risk, and its place in the overall ranking. This strategy characterizes the process for a society (or organization or individual) that throws itself completely into dealing with one risk after another. The other extreme strategy, simultaneous risk ranking, spreads available resources equally across all risks. It characterizes the most methodical of ranking exercises. Given ample ranking resources, simultaneous risk ranking will eventually provide an accurate set of priorities, whereas sequential ranking might never get to some risks. Resource constraints, however, may prevent simultaneous rankers from examining any risk very thoroughly. The model is intended to clarify the nature of ranking tasks, predict the efficacy of alternative strategies, and improve their design.

Long, M., et al. (2001). "Gender and racial counter-stereotypes in science education television: a content analysis." Public Understanding of Science 10(3): 259-273.	This study analyzes characters in four children's science education television programs. Results indicated that these programs presented some counter-stereotypical images of scientists and people interested in science. Males and females were equally likely to be scientists, and they were on screen for the same amount of time per episode. Also, status, as measured by clothing worn and character knowledge, did not differ by gender or ethnicity. However, improvements are needed. Male characters significantly outnumbered female characters. Males generally were adults but females were equally likely to be adults or youths. Finally, minorities were significantly less likely to be labeled as scientists, minority scientists spent much less time on screen than did Caucasian scientists, and there were significantly fewer minority characters than Caucasian characters. Data are also presented on the differences in how main and visitor characters are portrayed.

Long, M., et al. (2010). "Portrayals of Male and Female Scientists in Television Programs Popular Among Middle School-Age Children." Science Communication 32(3): 356-382.	This content analysis examined portrayals of scientist characters in 14 television programs popular among or likely to have been viewed by middle school-age children. While male scientists significantly outnumbered and appeared in significantly more scenes than did female scientists, males and females were depicted similarly in reference to professional position, marital status, and parental status. Gender-stereotyped behavior was largely absent in portrayals of scientist characters. Additionally, both male and female scientists were portrayed most often with the wishful identification attribute of intelligence. Implications for middle school-age children's perceptions of scientists and for cultivating girls' interest in science careers are discussed.

Longstaff, H. and M. M. Burgess (2010). "Recruiting for representation in public deliberation on the ethics of biobanks." Public Understanding of Science 19(2): 212-224.	This paper addresses the dilemmas of participant sampling and recruitment for deliberative science policy projects. Results are drawn from a deliberative public event that was held in April and May, 2007. The research objective of The BC Biobank Deliberation was to assess deliberative democracy as an approach to legitimate policy advice from a subset of British Columbians concerning the secondary use of human tissues for prospective genomic and genetic research. The overall goal was to have participants identify key values that should guide a biobank in British Columbia. This paper assesses our team's group decision-making processes concerning participant sampling for the 2007 event. Results presented here should allow the reader to critically examine our team's choices and could also be used to assist advocates of deliberative democracy and others who may wish to propose similar events in the future.

Longstaff, H. and D. M. Secko (2016). "Assessing the quality of a deliberative democracy mini-public event about advanced biofuel production and development in Canada." Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 252-261.	The importance of evaluating deliberative public engagement events is well recognized, but such activities are rarely conducted for a variety of theoretical, political and practical reasons. In this article, we provide an assessment of the criteria presented in the 2008 National Research Council report on Public Participation in Environmental Assessment and Decision Making (NRC report) as explicit indicators of quality for the 2012 Advanced Biofuels' deliberative democracy event. The National Research Council's criteria were selected to evaluate this event because they are decision oriented, are the products of an exhaustive review of similar past events, are intended specifically for environmental processes and encompass many of the criteria presented in other evaluation frameworks. It is our hope that the results of our study may encourage others to employ and assess the National Research Council's criteria as a generalizable benchmark that may justifiably be used in forthcoming deliberative events exploring different topics with different audiences.

Longstaff, T. A., et al. (2002). "Are we forgetting the risk of COTS products in wireless communications?" Risk Analysis 22(1): 1-6.	This paper addresses the risks associated with the exponential increase in the use of wireless communications and the implementation of wireless as a set of COTS technologies available in most large-scale computer-based systems. It describes the critical impact of these trends on information assurance, as well as on the trustworthiness of the infrastructures that are interdependent on and interconnected with wireless communications. A holistic process of risk assessment and management is suggested to prevent future problems.

Lopez, A. (2010). "Defusing the Cannon/Canon: An Organic Media Approach to Environmental Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(1): 99-108.	In order to convey the dangers of climate change, many activists deploy the old canon of communication theory, which views mass media as a kind of "magic bullet.'' Influenced by theories such as George Lakoff's cognitive linguistics, they propose that environmentally "progressive'' mass media frames can be aimed like a cannon at the "public mind.'' This article argues that such an effort mirrors a mechanistic strategy of industrial production and remains a "shallow'' method of environmental communications. In response, it is argued that "organic media,'' like glasnost, is based on open and local contexts. This article concludes that "slow'' and "small'' communication environments can encourage biodiverse ecological intelligence, an approach that embodies a sustainable and "deep'' methodology.

Lopez, J. J. (2007). "Notes on metaphors notes as metaphors - The genome as musical spectacle." Science Communication 29(1): 7-34.	This article is a contribution to the growing body of work that has emphasized the need to develop a theoretical framework capable of exploring metaphorical communication as a social rather than just as a cognitive process. The author draws attention to some of the social dynamics through which the inherent polyvalence of metaphors becomes stabilized, though never entirely neutralized. Specifically, he highlights the ways in which context, practices, and space serve to close down potential meanings. This is followed by an analysis of the deployment of a musical metaphor-nucleotide-bases-as-musical-notes that produce the "music of life"-in the context of a traveling science exhibition, The Geee! in Genome, whose stated goal is to educate and stimulate debate among the Canadian public. The author shows that although the musical metaphor lacks heuristic utility as a tool for explaining the "science" in the exhibition, it contributes to the staging of genomics and "life" itself as a spectacle; this makes it possible to frame contentious issues around genetic determinism, biotechnology-enabled health care, enhancement, commodification, and property rights in a more hospitable semantic terrain.

Lorenzoni, I. and M. Hulme (2009). "Believing is seeing: laypeople's views of future socio-economic and climate change in England and in Italy." Public Understanding of Science 18(4): 383-400.	Cross-cultural studies are particularly relevant in the context of climate change, given its pervasive character and the growing demand for climate change mitigation at both global and local levels. This paper reports on findings from comparative cross-cultural mixed-methods research eliciting perceptions of the future among citizens in Norwich (UK) and Rome (Italy). The paper explores how individuals at the two locations interpret socio-economic and climate scenarios, and how they relate environmental change to human behavior. Attitude segmentation was found to be similar in both localities. Although most participants in both locations realized the benefits of a future centered on sustainable resource use and societal welfare, individuals' attitudes and considerations about the future were not largely influenced by the scenarios. Discussions revealed that the credibility of the projections depended on individuals' prior beliefs and their trust in the science portrayed.

Lorenzoni, I., et al. (2005). "Dangerous climate change: The role for risk research." Risk Analysis 25(6): 1387-1398.	The notion of "dangerous climate change" constitutes an important development of the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It persists, however, as an ambiguous expression, sustained by multiple definitions of danger. It also implicitly contains the question of how to respond to the complex and multi-disciplinary risk issues that climate change poses. The invaluable role of the climate science community. which relies on risk assessments to characterize system uncertainties and to identify limits beyond which changes may become dangerous, is acknowledged. But this alone will not suffice to develop long-term policy. Decisions need to include other considerations, such as value judgments about potential risks, and societal and individual perceptions of "danger," which are often contested. This article explores links and cross-overs between the climate science and risk communication and perception approaches to defining danger. Drawing upon nine articles in this Special Issue of Risk Analysis, we examine a set of themes: limits of current scientific understanding: differentiated public perceptions of danger from climate change; social and cultural processes amplifying and attenuating perceptions of, and responses to, climate change; risk communication design; and new approaches to climate change decision making. The article reflects upon some of the difficulties inherent in responding to the issue in a coherent, interdisciplinary fashion, concluding nevertheless that action should be taken, while acknowledging the context-specificity of "danger." The need for new policy tools is emphasised, while research on nested solutions should be aimed at overcoming the disjunctures apparent in interpretations of climate change risks.

Losh, S. C. (2010). "Stereotypes about scientists over time among US adults: 1983 and 2001." Public Understanding of Science 19(3): 372-382.	Prior research demonstrates that students and some teachers often depict scientists as socially inept workaholic males; however, scholars rarely examine representative samples of adults. sow the c. general public stereotypes scientists may influence accepting science expertise because its practitioners can appear so eccentric. my expressing negative stereotypes, "typical adults" also can discourage youthful interests in science. This study analyzes general public interview data using identical questions from the 1983 and 2001 National Science Foundation Surveys of Public Understanding of Science and Technology, probability samples of 3219 adults. Despite many positive changes over nearly 20 years, and strong approval of a child's potential science career, sizable minorities of adults continued to negatively stereotype scientists. Women were more positive than men but had considered a science career less often. Images of scientists also were affected by age, educational variables, parental status, and a religiosity measure.

Lousley, C. (2016). "Charismatic life: spectacular biodiversity and biophilic life writing." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 704-718.	The essay uses the term "charismatic life"to describe representations of nature that emphasize vitality and vibrancy. Beginning with how life is reified when nature becomes spectacle, the essay discusses how a fetishism of life was part of the early structuring logic of biodiversity science in a way that undermined crafting other ethical and political responses to loss. When biodiversity emerged as a popular science concept in the 1980s, it was described as a scientific replacement for the sentimental attachment to charismatic megafauna that previously structured conservation priorities. But this essay argues, in a historicized reading of conservation biologist E. O. Wilson's popular science memoir Biophilia [Wilson, E. O. (1984). Biophilia. Cambridge: Harvard University Press] alongside the seminal edited collection Biodiversity [Wilson, E. O. (Ed.). (1988). Biodiversity. Washington, DC: National Academy of Sciences], that Wilson's sentimental biopolitics renders the world as if a collection of living souvenirs - tokens by which to remember forms of life that will have been lost.

Lowe, T., et al. (2006). "Does tomorrow ever come? Disaster narrative and public perceptions of climate change." Public Understanding of Science 15(4): 435-457.	The film The Day After Tomorrow depicts the abrupt and catastrophic transformation of the Earth's climate into a new ice age, playing upon the uncertainty surrounding a possible North Atlantic thermohaline circulation (Gulf Stream) shutdown. This paper investigates the impact of the film on people's perception of climate change through a survey of filingoers in the UK. Analysis focuses on four issues: the likelihood of extreme impacts; concern over climate change versus other global problems; motivation to take action; and responsibility for the problem of climate change. It finds that seeing the film, at least in the short term, changed people's attitudes; viewers were significantly more concerned about climate change, and about other environmental risks. However, while the film increased anxiety about environmental risks, viewers experienced difficulty in distinguishing science fact from dramatized science fiction. Their belief in the likelihood of extreme events as a result of climate change was actually reduced. Following the film, many viewers expressed strong motivation to act on climate change. However, although the film may have sensitized viewers and motivated them to act, the public do not have information on what action they can take to mitigate climate change.

Lu, H. (2016). "The Effects of Emotional Appeals and Gain Versus Loss Framing in Communicating Sea Star Wasting Disease." Science Communication 38(2): 143-169.	In response to the recent sea star wasting disease event and the growing concern over the negative consequences of eco-depression regarding environmental crises, this study investigated the effects of two emotional appeals (sadness and hope) and their interaction with gain versus loss framing on information seeking, policy support, and pro-environmental behavioral intentions. Overall, the results suggest that the sadness appeal was an effective approach in promoting information seeking and policy support, whereas the impacts of the hope appeal were limited in this context. In addition, this study provides initial evidence that a sadness appeal will be more effective when it is accompanied by gain framing and that a hope appeal tends to have greater impacts when it is juxtaposed with loss framing. Future implications and limitations are also discussed.

Lu, H. and J. P. Schuldt (2018). "Communicating Zika Risk: Using Metaphor to Increase Perceived Risk Susceptibility." Risk Analysis 38(12): 2525-2534.	Effectively communicating the risks associated with emerging zoonotic diseases remains an important challenge. Drawing on research into the psychological effects of metaphoric framing, we explore the conditions under which exposure to the "nation as a body" metaphor influences perceived risk susceptibility, behavioral intentions, and policy support in the context of Zika virus. In a between-subjects experiment, 354 U.S. adults were randomly assigned to one of four experimental conditions as part of a 2 (severity message: high vs. low) x 2 (U.S. framing: metaphoric vs. literal) design. Results revealed an interaction effect such that metaphoric (vs. literal) framing increased perceived risk susceptibility in the high-severity condition only. Further analyses revealed that perceived risk susceptibility and negative affect mediated the path between the two-way interaction and policy support and behavioral intentions regarding Zika prevention. Overall, these findings complement prior work on the influence of metaphoric framing on risk perceptions, while offering practical insights for risk communicators seeking to communicate about Zika and other zoonotic diseases.

Lu, L. (2009). "The value of the use of biotechnology: public views in China and Europe." Public Understanding of Science 18(4): 481-492.	This study contrasts public views of the value of biotechnology applications in China and Europe. The most striking result is that biotechnology applications get more consistent acceptance and support in China than in Europe. The Chinese people are extremely positive in their evaluation of the usefulness and moral acceptability of various applications of biotechnology, whereas the European public has broader and firmer understanding of the risks involved. Furthermore, the findings indicate that the public's perception of benefit might be a prerequisite to supporting the development of biotechnology; nevertheless, moral acceptance is the key to gaining public support. Conversely, public perceptions of high risk may not necessarily reduce the level of support.

Lu, X., et al. (2015). "Social trust and risk perception of genetically modified food in urban areas of China: the role of salient value similarity." Journal of Risk Research 18(2): 199-214.	Lacking specific knowledge, the public perceives technical risks based on their trust in the authorities. This article explored the role of shared value in the process of trust judgment and risk perception of genetically modified (GM) foods. Study 1 showed that social trust was a mediator between shared value and risk perception. Higher value similarity between individual and spokesperson resulted in deeper trust in the institution; moreover, social trust effectively reduced public risk perception of GM foods. Study 2 demonstrated that shared value improved in the care and competence dimensions of trust. The two dimensions of trust were positively related, but only competence had a significant influence on risk perception. Implications for risk communication are discussed.

Ludwig, D. (2014). "Extended cognition in science communication." Public Understanding of Science 23(8): 982-995.	The aim of this article is to propose a methodological externalism that takes knowledge about science to be partly constituted by the environment. My starting point is the debate about extended cognition in contemporary philosophy and cognitive science. Externalists claim that human cognition extends beyond the brain and can be partly constituted by external devices. First, I show that most studies of public knowledge about science are based on an internalist framework that excludes the environment we usually utilize to make sense of science and does not allow the possibility of extended knowledge. In a second step, I argue that science communication studies should adopt a methodological externalism and accept that knowledge about science can be partly realized by external information resources such as Wikipedia.

Lujan, J. L. and O. Todt (2000). "Perceptions, attitudes and ethical valuations: the ambivalence of the public image of biotechnology in Spain." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 383-392.	This paper analyzes the study of the public perception of biotechnology, comparing different studies made on the European and the Spanish national levels. It aims at testing the applicability of these binds of studies, and describes some of their limits. The analysis shows clear ambivalence in the public response to distinct applications of this technology, pointing out the crucial differences between general moral valuation and attitude towards specific products. Taking into account this difference appears fundamental for the design of future perception studies able to more accurately reflect public understanding.

Lujan, J. L. and O. Todt (2007). "Precaution in public: the social perception of the role of science and values in policy making." Public Understanding of Science 16(1): 97-109.	This article presents the results of a study of public perception recently completed in Spain which questioned citizens about their views on the precautionary principle, the role of science in policy making, as well as their level of trust in science. The results show that Spanish citizens, by a significant margin, consider that scientists may be influenced by economic interests, that values play a key role in policy making, and that policy should be guided by precaution. Two groups were identified, one with a moderate and the other one with a more stringent interpretation of precaution. The results indicate that public policies that do not sufficiently take into account precaution and exclude values from decision making are likely to encounter resistance among many citizens.

Lund, T. B., et al. (2014). "Painful dilemmas: A study of the way the public's assessment of animal research balances costs to animals against human benefits." Public Understanding of Science 23(4): 428-444.	The conflict between animal costs and human benefits has dominated public as well as academic debates about animal research. However, surveys of public perceptions of animal research rarely focus on this part of attitude formation. This paper traces the prevalence of different attitudes to animal research in the public when people are asked to take benefit and cost considerations into account concurrently. Results from the examination of two representative samples of the Danish public identify three reproducible attitude stances. Approximately 30-35% of people questioned approved of animal research quite strongly, and 15-20% opposed animal research. The remaining 50% were reserved in their views. Further studies will ideally use the measure developed here to make possible relatively fine-grained comparisons and understandings of differences between populations and changes in attitudes over time.

Lundin, S. (2002). "Creating identity with biotechnology: the xenotransplanted body as the norm." Public Understanding of Science 11(4): 333-345.	One of today's great issues is how an advanced medical technology like xenotransplantation should be applied. It is well known that medicine brings not only potential but also risk. On the cultural level, xenotransplantations are equally complicated; they arouse thoughts about whether our outlook on humanity will be influenced now that modem techniques can "correct" our defective bodies. The article asks whether xenotransplantation creates new cultural meanings. That is, how do newly emerging ideas of a technologically created normality raise a set of moral questions about nature and culture, mind and body? The discussion is based on interview studies with patients suffering from diabetes and Parkinson's disease. The former have been given porcine islets, while the others have had human fetal cells transplanted into the brain; the latter are also potential recipients of xenotransplants. This empirical material, becomes the basis for discussing how diseases can lead to a crisis in which it is essential-on a concrete, everyday level-to find strategies for dealing with the consequences. In this process of identity and normalization, advanced biomedicine is an important factor.

Lundin, S. (2012). "Organ economy: organ trafficking in Moldova and Israel." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 226-241.	Organ trafficking is an illegal means of meeting the shortage of transplants. The activity flourishes for several interacting reasons, such as medical needs, poverty and criminality. Other factors are fundamental conceptual structures such as the dream of the regenerative body as well as the view of the body as an object of utility and an object of value. The article aims to go behind the normative discussions that usually surround organ trafficking. Why this is happening, and what the societal consequences are, is examined through ethnographic fieldwork. The focus is on the shadow economies that govern existence and in which people, goods, weapons, money, bodies, etc. constitute components of the global market.

Luokkanen, M., et al. (2014). "Geoengineering, news media and metaphors: Framing the controversial." Public Understanding of Science 23(8): 966-981.	We analyze how metaphors are used in presenting and debating novel technologies that could influence the climate and thereby also future climate change policies. We show that metaphors strengthen a policy-related storyline, while metaphors are rarer in purely descriptive accounts. The choice of metaphor frames the technologies. War metaphors are used equally in arguments that are for, against and neutral with respect to the further development of geoengineering, but differences arise in the use of metaphors related to controllability, health and mechanisms. Controllability metaphors are often used in justifying further research and development of good governance practices, whereas health metaphors tend to be used against the very idea of geoengineering by portraying technological interventions in the climate as an emblematic case of an unacceptable development. These findings suggest that metaphors are early indications of restrictions in the interpretative flexibility that influences future governance of geoengineering and geoengineering research.

Lusardi, A. (2015). "Financial literacy: Do people know the ABCs of finance?" Public Understanding of Science 24(3): 260-271.	Increasingly, individuals are in charge of their own financial security and are confronted with ever more complex financial instruments. However, there is evidence that many individuals are not well-equipped to make sound saving decisions. This article looks at financial literacy, which is defined as the ability to process economic information and make informed decisions about financial planning, wealth accumulation, debt, and pensions. Failure to plan for retirement, lack of participation in the stock market, and poor borrowing behavior can all be linked to ignorance of basic financial concepts. Financial literacy impacts financial decision making, with implications that apply to individuals, communities, countries, and society as a whole. Given the lack of financial literacy among the population, it may be important to remedy it by adding financial literacy to the school curriculum.

Lynch, J. (2009). "Stem cells and the embryo: biorhetoric and scientism in Congressional debate." Public Understanding of Science 18(3): 309-324.	Opposition to embryonic stem (ES) cell research in the United States has focused on the status of the embryo and used discursive strategies based on the rhetorical figure of the "public fetus" created in abortion debates. The public fetus is an example of biorhetoric, and the biorhetorical component of it is intensified because political and scientific-technical developments render the extension of it to the ES cell debate problematic. This essay examines the development of debates about life, conception and the status of the fetus/embryo in Congressional hearings. Arguments from both sides focus on definitions of "the embryo," and ultimately transform the biorhetorical appeal into a form of scientism.

Lynch, J., et al. (2014). "Bridging Science and Journalism: Identifying the Role of Public Relations in the Construction and Circulation of Stem Cell Research Among Laypeople." Science Communication 36(4): 479-501.	Journalism has been a key site for communicating science, and public relations departments at universities and research hospitals are a vital institutional link between science and journalism. Located betwixt scientific demands for didactic explanations of science and journalistic desire for interesting stories, biomedical public relations writing juggles competing rhetorical demands. This study shows that press releases favor the concerns of internal scientific audiences over journalistic audiences. Yet stories that provide journalistic appeals to application are more likely to gain a journalist's attention, although journalists will then develop their own appeals to application to incorporate into the story.

Lynch, M. and R. McNally (2003). ""Science," "common sense," and DNA evidence: a legal controversy about the public understanding of science." Public Understanding of Science 12(1): 83-103.	Law courts are important institutional settings in which public understanding of science is problematic. Courts have struggled with the question of how to handle scientific evidence in a system of justice in which lay jurors are responsible for deciding the facts of the case. Judicial conceptions of science and of jurors' capacities to understand scientific evidence inform decisions in particular cases. Such decisions, in turn, act as precedents that, for better or worse, embed judicial conceptions of public understanding of science into the workings of the legal system. This paper examines an English case in which the difference between "scientific" and "common sense" evidence was explicitly at stake. In this case Regina v. Adams, DNA evidence was used to convict the defendant of rape. The principal item of prosecutorial evidence was a match between DNA profiles developed from the defendant's blood and from semen recovered at the crime scene. Prosecution experts expressed the evidence in probabilistic terms, estimating a probability of one in 200 million that a DNA profile from a randomly chosen unrelated man in the relevant population would match the profile developed from the crime stain. Other so-called "common sense" evidence supported the defendant's not guilty plea. The case was appealed twice in the mid-1990s as the Court of Appeal deliberated over an innovative effort by the defense to counteract the prosecution evidence by converting the non-DNA "common sense" evidence into probability estimates. In its decisions, the Court reinstated a boundary between the "scientific" and "common sense" evidence, arguing that this boundary was necessary to preserve the jury's role as trier of fact. The paper's discussion of the court's boundary work addresses unresolved problems with the place of probability estimates in jury trials.

Lyons, B. (2018). "Reducing Group Alignment in Factual Disputes? The Limited Effects of Social Identity Interventions." Science Communication 40(6): 789-807.	Public divisions over contested science often arise due to individuals' motivation to hold beliefs in line with others with whom they share a common social identity. To reduce the influence of threatened group identities, this research tests two potential interventions at the point of exposure to new information: self-affirmation and multiple identity salience manipulation. Experiments across dispute contexts-a toxic mining spill, a biofuels mandate, and gene editing technology-show limited support for either intervention reducing group alignment. Together, these results contribute to a growing body of work illuminating the limits of social identity interventions.

Lyons, B. A., et al. (2018). "Enduring Extremes? Polar Vortex, Drought, and Climate Change Beliefs." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(7): 876-894.	Some extreme weather events may be more likely to affect climate change beliefs than others, in part because schema individuals possess for different events could vary in encouraging such links. Using a representative sample of U.S. adults and geocoded National Weather Service data, we examine how a range of extreme weather event categories relate to climate change beliefs, and the degree to which individuals' self-reported experiences are shaped by their political views across event types. For tornado, hurricane, and flood events, we find no link with beliefs. For polar vortex and drought events, we find that although self-reported experience is linked with climate beliefs, reporting of these experiences is influenced by political identity and partisan news exposure. These findings underscore a limited role for extreme weather experiences in climate beliefs, and show that events more open to interpretation, such as droughts and polar vortex disturbances, are most likely to be seen through a partisan lens.

Lysaght, T. and I. Kerridge (2012). "Rhetoric, power and legitimacy: A critical analysis of the public policy disputes surrounding stem cell research in Australia (2005-6)." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 195-210.	In December 2006, the Australian Parliament liberalized regulation governing stem cell research. This decision and preceding legislative review generated considerable public debate, which centred on objections to the deliberate creation and destruction of human embryos for research purposes. This paper draws on qualitative research conducted on the public debate surrounding this policy episode. The aim of this research was to examine how science and scientific knowledge are mobilized by participants in these debates to support their arguments. Data were collected from 109 newspaper opinion editorials as well as 23 in-depth interviews and examined using qualitative content and thematic analysis. Results of this analysis depict science as a rhetorical, moral and political resource that provides opportunities for participants to gain legitimacy, negotiate meaning and assert authority in the public domain. The mobilization of science in public discourse is discussed along with suggestions that are aimed at encouraging greater transparency and inclusiveness in public debates around contested science and emergent technologies.

Lyytimaki, J., et al. (2011). "Unrecognized, concealed, or forgotten - the case of absent information in risk communication." Journal of Risk Research 14(6): 757-773.	There are differing and partially incompatible views about what kind of issues should be included into risk discussions and what kinds of risks should be emphasized and dealt with. While the emergence of new risks has been extensively studied, relatively little attention has been paid to the roles that the absence of information can play in risk debates. Potentially relevant information may be downplayed or omitted and less relevant overemphasized when actors with varying interests, knowledge bases, and risk frames interact. Multiple and cumulative environmental and health risks caused by chemicals and other stressors pose particular challenges for risk communication. We identify and discuss different forms of unrecognized, hidden, and forgotten information by using chemical risks as a case. A widely applicable typology of absent information in risk communication is outlined.

Maasen, S. and P. Weingart (1995). "Metaphors-Messengers of Meaning - a Contribution to an Evolutionary Sociology of Science." Science Communication 17(1): 9-31.	Based on the idea that the central link between science and society is one established by a diffusion of knowledge, the authors present an outline of what might be called an evolutionary sociology of knowledge. The proposal is first to make use of the concept of metaphor whose characteristic features are well known within the literary realm. By, introducing an unfamiliar analogy into a new context both the metaphorical concept and the context challenge eventually may change each other The authors claim that knowledge transfers, in general, might be analyzed in a similar fashion. Second, such a metaphor analysis of units of knowledge should be combined with discourse analysis as well as central concepts of evolutionary theory to uncover the institutionalized mechanisms by which certain bodies of knowledge become pro: cessed selectively.

MacDonald, T. and A. Bean (2011). "Adventures in the subatomic universe: An exploratory study of a scientist-museum physics education project." Public Understanding of Science 20(6): 846-862.	Quarked!(TM) is a collaborative education project between physicists, museum educators and designers that was developed to introduce youth to concepts of scale and the particulate nature of matter through hands-on museum programs and a website with animated videos, games and lesson plans. A pilot study was carried out to assess the project's success in presenting these concepts in a fun and engaging way for an elementary and middle school aged audience, to investigate its relevance to teachers, and to explore children's awareness of things that they cannot directly see. We found that children as young as second grade are aware of microscopic entities that can be studied indirectly. Our study also suggests that concepts of scale and matter can be presented in a way that is engaging and accessible to youth, and that teachers consider relevant to existing curricula.

Macedo-Rouet, M., et al. (2003). "Effects of online reading on popular science comprehension." Science Communication 25(2): 99-128.	The present study examines the effects of print and online presentations of a multiple document report on reader's comprehension, perception of cognitive load, satisfaction, and attention. We hypothesized that users of online media would show poorer results compared with print users. An experimental protocol was used to assess readers' performance using print and online versions of a popular science magazine report. Hypertext led to higher perceived cognitive load and poorer comprehension of the complementary documents. The results suggest that presenting graphics in long hypertexts increases effort and reduces text legibility. The present data offer support for theories of disorientation and cognitive load in hypermedia learning.

Macer, D., et al. (2002). "Japanese attitudes toward xenotransplantation." Public Understanding of Science 11(4): 347-362.	The reasons given by the Japanese public, scientists, and school and university students toward xenotransplantation were assessed by questionnaire surveys and by respondents' written comments. Between 1997 and 2000, there was an increase in the number of people who said they had heard of xenotransplant research, from 43 percent to 67 percent In 2000, three in ten among the public said that it should be encouraged, while half said that it should not. In contrast, just less than half of the scientists said they supported the technology. The major reasons given in all groups were to save human life, versus safety and ethical concerns. More of the general public and school students considered xenotransplants to be unnatural compared with the scientists and university students. The reasons given are discussed in light of Japanese culture and the situation regarding organ transplants. Some in all groups, including young people, expressed both benefits and risks of this technology, and sophisticated arguments were used, suggesting that a number of people are able to consider moral dilemmas, such as those posed by the use of genetically engineered animals for xenotransplants. Still there remain a number of even educated persons who argue on only one side of the debate over the use of xenotransplants.

MacGregor, D. G., et al. (1999). ""How exposed is exposed enough?" - Lay inferences about chemical exposure." Risk Analysis 19(4): 649-659.	The concept of exposure is central to chemical risk assessment and plays an important role in communicating to the public about the potential health risks of chemicals. Research on chemical risk perception has found some indication that the model lay people use to judge chemical exposure differs from that of toxicologists, thereby leading to different conclusions about chemical safety. This paper presents the results of a series of studies directed toward developing a model for understanding how lay people interpret the concept of chemical exposure. The results indicate that people's beliefs about chemical exposure land its risks) are based on two broad categories of inferences. One category of inferences relates to the nature in which contact with a chemical has taken place, including the amount of a chemical involved and its potential health consequences. A second category of inferences about chemical exposure relates to the pragmatics of language interpretation, leading to beliefs about the motives and purposes behind chemical risk communication. Risk communicators are encouraged to consider how alternative models of exposure and language interpretation can lead to conflicting conclusions on the part of the public about chemical safety.

Macgregor, D. G., et al. (1994). "Perception of Risks from Electromagnetic-Fields - a Psychometric Evaluation of a Risk-Communication Approach." Risk Analysis 14(5): 815-828.	Potential health risks from exposure to power-frequency electromagnetic fields (EMF) have become an issue of significant public concern.  This study evaluates a brochure designed to communicate EMF health risks from a scientific perspective.  The study utilized a pretest-posttest design in which respondents judged various sources of EMF (and other) health and safety risks, both before reading the brochure and after.  Respondents assessed risks on dimensions similar to those utilized in previous studies of risk perception.  In addition, detailed ratings were made that probed respondents' beliefs about the possible causal effects of EMF exposure.  The findings suggest that naive beliefs about the potential of EMF exposure to cause harm were highly influenced by specific content elements of the brochure.  The implications for using risk-communication approaches based on communicating scientific uncertainty are discussed.

Machado, H. and F. Santos (2011). "Popular press and forensic genetics in Portugal: Expectations and disappointments regarding two cases of missing children." Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 303-318.	Two cases of missing children in Portugal (Joana and Maddie) have recently highlighted the dilemmas and contingencies associated with the technology of "genetic fingerprinting" for forensic purposes in the context of criminal investigations. The purpose of this article is to analyze the popular press's discourses and representations around forensic genetics in the context of those two highly mediatized criminal investigation cases. The symbolical construction and representation of forensic genetics by the media presents a form of public exposure to beliefs on forensic genetics' characteristics and potential. These are blended with popular cultural contexts that are constructed with reference to images of a super-science which may carry consequences in the public understanding of forensic science. The media coverage of both cases and their actual disclosure resembles the patterns of a CSI effect, insofar as real science's capabilities and limitations are placed against fictionalized representations of forensic science.

MacIntosh-Murray, A. (2007). "Poster presentations as a genre in knowledge communication - A case study of forms, norms, and values." Science Communication 28(3): 347-376.	Learning to communicate research well through posters involves far more than formatting issues such as font size. The conventions of poster presentations as social practices are part of academic apprenticeship in many health disciplines. This case study examines doctoral students' poster presentations as a research-process genre. The article maps genre knowledge required of novice researchers: poster form, creation processes, presentation practices, and underlying values. Complexity arises from the multiple roles that posters must fulfill, combined with formatting restrictions, the nature of audience interaction, and prestige issues. Posters are often considered as second class compared to oral presentations, perhaps unfairly. The reuse of posters raises questions about publication as academic currency and appropriate knowledge-exchange practices. Poster presentations are evolving with digital media, which may affect competence development in this multimodal form of research communication. Future research should consider how posters' technology-influenced evolution affects interaction, communicative purposes, and the texts themselves.

MacKenzie, C. A. (2014). "Summarizing Risk Using Risk Measures and Risk Indices." Risk Analysis 34(12): 2143-2162.	Our society is fascinated with risk in many different areas and disciplines. One of the main ways to describe and communicate the level of risk is through risk indices, which summarize risk using numbers or categories such as words, letters, or colors. These indices are used to communicate risks to the public, understand how risk is changing over time, compare among different risks, and support decision making. Given the different methods to construct risk indices, including flawed methods such as risk matrices, this article develops specific steps that analysts can follow to create a risk index. This article emphasizes the importance of describing risk with a probability distribution, developing a numerical risk measure that summarizes the probability distribution, and finally translating the risk measure to an index. Measuring the risk is the most difficult part and requires the analyst to summarize a probability distribution into one or possibly a few numbers. The risk measure can then be transformed to a numerical or categorical index. I apply the method outlined in this article to construct a risk index that compares the risk of fatalities in aviation and highway transportation.

Mackenzie, S. (2011). "Dissecting the social body: social inequality through AIDS counter-narratives." Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 491-505.	HIV/AIDS conspiracy theories constitute a loosely grouped set of meanings that share the notion of secret collusion among allied parties. This paper traces one woman's etiological narrative of HIV/AIDS. Such embodied experience and cultural understanding when placed against the backdrop of current thinking on the topic in the United States builds a new framework for understanding the emergence and circulation of HIV/AIDS conspiracy theories as "counter-narratives" employed by individuals and publics in the face of the AIDS pandemic. Such counter-narrative creates a rhetorical space for challenges to power through the articulation of oppositional ideas about dominant scientific knowledge. Without a critical exploration of HIV/AIDS conspiracy theories that examines their emergence and effects as a form of discourse circulating in the public domain, public health advocates will not be able to trace and respond to these narratives' impact on HIV prevention efforts or consider their relevance for other emerging infectious diseases.

MacLean, S. and M. M. Burgess (2010). "In the public interest: assessing expert and stakeholder influence in public deliberation about biobanks." Public Understanding of Science 19(4): 486-496.	Providing technical and experiential information without overwhelming participants' perspectives presents a major challenge to public involvement in policy decisions. This article reports the design and analysis of a case study on incorporating expert and stakeholder knowledge without including them as deliberators, while supporting deliberative participants' ability to introduce and critically assess different perspectives. Analysis of audio-recorded deliberations illustrates how expert and stakeholder knowledge was cited, criticized and incorporated into deliberations. In conclusion, separating experts and stakeholders from deliberations may be an important prima facie principle when the goal is to enhance citizen representation on technical issues and related policy.

MacLeod, R. (2000). "Nature's museums: Victorian science and the architecture of display." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 467-468.
	
MacLeod, R. (2001). "Vision and accident: The story of the Victoria and Albert museum." Public Understanding of Science 10(4): 442-443.
	
Macnaghten, P. and J. S. Guivant (2011). "Converging citizens? Nanotechnology and the political imaginary of public engagement in Brazil and the United Kingdom." Public Understanding of Science 20(2): 207-220.	This paper offers a comparative analysis of two public engagement exercises, conducted concurrently in the UK and Brazil. Following an account of how public engagement is situated in the political imaginary of the UK and Brazil, we set out a theoretical framework for such comparison, highlighting questions of narrative, political culture and civic epistemology. We then set out key differences in response, considering Brazilian citizen responses as prototypically more positive of (nano) technology, and as more amenable to and accepting of Enlightenment master narratives of technoscientific progress. UK citizen responses, by contrast, were more tragic, and more informed by resistant narratives of technoscientific failure. Although such distinctions are not absolute, they are nevertheless significant. We conclude by pointing to a set of analytical and normative challenges for how the science and technology studies analyst is to understand the politically contingent character of public engagement in the governance of science and technology.

Macnaghten, P., et al. (2005). "Nanotechnology, governance, and public deliberation: What role for the social sciences?" Science Communication 27(2): 268-291.	In this article we argue that nanotechnology represents an extraordinary opportunity to build in a robust role for the social sciences in a technology that remains at an early, and hence undetermined, stage of development. We examine policy dynamics in both the United States and United Kingdom aimed at both opening up, and closing down, the role of the social sciences in nanotechnologies. We then set out a prospective agenda for the social sciences and its potential in the future shaping of nanotechnology research and innovation processes. The emergent, undetermined nature of nanotechnologies calls for an open, experimental, and interdisciplinary model of social science research.

Macoubrie, J. (2006). "Nanotechnology: public concerns, reasoning and trust in government." Public Understanding of Science 15(2): 221-241.	Public perceptions of emergent technologies have become increasingly important to understand, in part due to the worldwide backlash against genetically modified foods, which effectively stalled a new industry. In this context, and given the predicted importance of nanotechnology, this article reports an investigation of US citizens' concerns about nanotechnology development. The study investigated both the perceptions of informed citizens and the reasoning basis underlying concerns, as well as explored public concerns in relation to four projected applications of nanotechnology. Two of the applications investigated were thought to be potentially controversial and, thus, perhaps particularly important to formation of public opinion. Results presented here include concerns that were consistent across the study sample, and concerns specific to different regions of the United States. The study found low trust in government to manage risks, and that medical and industrial uses were related to lowest trust in government to manage risks. Higher education levels were also related to lower trust in government to effectively manage risks. Study participants' concerns were largely based on experiential knowledge about past "breakthroughs" whose limitations and negative effects were poorly understood initially, and even when once known, were poorly managed.

Maeda, Y. and M. Miyahara (2003). "Determinants of trust in industry, government, and citizen's groups in Japan." Risk Analysis 23(2): 303-310.	The causal structure of the determinants of trust in industry, government, and citizen's groups in Japan was investigated on the basis of Peters et al. (1997). A preliminary survey of the adequacy of the hypotheses proposed by Peters et al. in Japan was made. A set of hypothesized determinants of trust in Japan was proposed based on results of the preliminary survey. Questionnaires concerning perceptions of trust in the organizations and the proposed-determinants were sent by mail to residents in the area where environmental risk problems had emerged. The data were analyzed by covariance structure analysis to construct models of trust in industry, government, and citizen's groups. As a result, "openness and honesty" "concern and care," "competence", "people's concern with risks," and "consensual values" were found to be factors directly determining trust. Suggested in particular is that "openness" of an organization is not attained merely by information disclosure, but also by bi-directional communication with the people. Moreover, these models include "consensual values," which do not appear in the model proposed by Peters et al.

Maeseele, P. (2010). "On Neo-luddites led by Ayatollahs: The Frame Matrix of the GM Food Debate in Northern Belgium." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(3): 277-300.	In characterizing the genetically manipulated (GM) food controversy as a risk conflict between different social groups with competing interests, the research question of this paper is which interpretive frames are found to be employed in the struggle over meaning in this conflict. In so doing, this paper not only answers the recent call to attend to the relationship between framing processes and issues of social and political power, but also proposes an extension to William Gamson's approach in order to differentiate these frames on an ideological level. After integrating this framing concept into a media-sociological perspective to the relation between media and science, a methodological framework is set out for identifying these interpretive frames which combines the analysis of frame sponsorship (of science, industry, and movements) and media representation. As a result, a frame matrix of 10 interpretive frames is presented, which comprises the different positions in the struggle over meaning in the GM food risk conflict.

Maeseele, P., et al. (2017). "In Flanders Fields: De/politicization and Democratic Debate on a GM Potato Field Trial Controversy in News Media." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(2): 166-183.	In May 2011, a highly mediatized direct action in the form of a "field liberation" took place in Flanders, Belgium, against a field trial of genetically modified potatoes. This direct action and its aftermath revealed the conflictual and antagonistic nature of the genetically modified organisms debate in Flanders. Consequently, it serves as a particularly suitable case to investigate the post-political thesis with regard to environmental discourse and politics. The aim of this paper is to investigate in what ways news media in their reporting contribute to processes of depoliticization and, resultantly, impede a democratic debate on the issues at stake. This paper attempts to provide an answer to this question based on a critical discourse analysis of the reporting by Flanders' two generalist, elite newspapers, De Standaard and De Morgen and the alternative online news site DeWereldMorgen. The findings reveal the existence of three ideological cultures, which are characterized by different degrees of de/politicization. We conclude by discussing how this study adds to our understanding of the relation between the depoliticization of environmental discourse, democratic debate and twenty-first-century news media.

Maeseele, P. A. and D. Schuttrman (2008). "Biotechnology and the popular press in Northern Belgium - A case study of hegemonic media discourses and the interpretive struggle." Science Communication 29(4): 435-471.	The media representation of biotechnology has received widespread attention during the last decade. Two gaps, however, are present in this literature, both of which are addressed in this study. We present data from a content analysis of coverage appearing in three popular newspapers in Northern Belgium between January 2000 and October 2004 (N= 506). The main findings reveal that the trends identified in the European elite press from 1992 to 1999 are confirmed and strengthened after 2000 in popular press coverage, resulting in a greater diversity of sources and perspectives than before. Our findings also reveal that different media sources achieve standing to strategically frame the biotech issue in advantageous terms, resulting in different representations for each application. Hegemonic discourse in terms of a source-generated probiotechnology bias is found to be solid for biomedical biotechnology, heavily under siege by challengers in the case of agricultural biotechnology, and characterized by dissension in the case of reproductive cloning.

Maharik, M. and B. Fischhoff (1992). "The Risks of Using Nuclear-Energy Sources in Space - Some Lay Activists Perceptions." Risk Analysis 12(3): 383-392.	A combination of directive and nondirective techniques was used to study the mental models of 30 lay activists regarding the risks of nuclear energy sources in space. Respondents' perceptions were compared with an "expert model" of the processes generating and controlling these risks, in terms of both the substance of their beliefs and several statistical measures of their performance. These analyses revealed a complex pattern of strengths and weaknesses. Their details are used to derive recommendations for formulating messages about these risks.

Maharik, M. and B. Fischhoff (1993). "Risk Knowledge and Risk Attitudes Regarding Nuclear-Energy Sources in Space." Risk Analysis 13(3): 345-353.	A series of four studies examined the relationship between how much people know about the risks of using nuclear energy sources in space and how they feel about the technology. We found that the more people know, the more favorable they are-except for two groups of people selected from organizations with strong pro-industry or pro-environment positions. These results suggest that a technology will get a more favorable hearing if it can get its message out-providing that it has a legitimate story to tell and that the situation has not become too polarized already. The limits to these conclusions are discussed.

Mahony, M. (2012). "Mediating Climate Change." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 776-777.
	
Mahony, M. (2012). "How Well Do Facts Travel? The Dissemination of Reliable Knowledge." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 255-256.
	
Mahroum, S. (2000). "Scientific mobility - An agent of scientific expansion and institutional empowerment." Science Communication 21(4): 367-378.	This article argues that scientific mobility has, as a part of its function, enhanced scientific expansion and the formation of gravity centers in science. Through the mobility of scientists, scientific traditions that are embodied in certain schools or departments expand to embrace other spatial sites of science and include them in their social spaces. The article uses geographical discourse to presume a relationship between mobility, scientific expansion, and scientific change. In doing so, it seeks to improve our understanding of the contribution of scientific mobility to the formation of scientific legitimacy and institutional credibility.

Maibach, E. and S. H. Priest (2009). "No More "Business as Usual" Addressing Climate Change Through Constructive Engagement." Science Communication 30(3): 299-304.
	
Maienschein, J. (1999). "Commentary: To the future - Arguments for scientific literacy." Science Communication 21(1): 75-87.	Even while demanding improvements in science education because of a deplorable lack of scientific literacy advocates do not agree about what they mean. "Scientific literacy" has become a buzz phrase to capture different things, a confusion that is useful at times because it allows people to think they agree when they really do nor. Yet, hiding disagreements also keeps us from understanding how We might make things better: This commentary explores the most common meanings and distinguishes scientific literacy-or the democratic having of creative, scientific "habits of mind" by everybody-from science literacy-or the having of particular scientific knowledge by trained experts. Both are important, and we must nor lose track of the more difficult and long-term goal of achieving scientific literacy for everybody in the urgency of producing short-term results in the form of scientific knowledge by the few.

Maille, M. E. and J. Saint-Charles (2014). "Fuelling an Environmental Conflict through Information Diffusion Strategies." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(3): 305-325.	When an environmental conflict occurs, the information people have access to play a crucial role in how the conflict develops. Through a case study of an ongoing conflict related to a highly contested wind farm in Quebec (Canada), this paper focuses on how the news of the project was announced by the developer and on how it was then diffused by different involved actors. It aims to answer the following questions: who is informed, when are these people informed, and how does it impact the unfolding conflict? Field observation and in-depth interviews with 93 individuals involved in the public hearing process were conducted. An important part of the analysis was made using social network analysis to reconstruct diffusion of the news of the project among the sample over a 5-year period. The main findings showed that the developer made strategic choices regarding information diffusion (confidentiality, exclusion of some actors-especially the citizens, rumors, etc.) that spurred on opposition in the latest stage of development of the project. The population's awareness was slow to grow, mainly because the news of the project was slow to spread in the community.

Maille, M. E., et al. (2010). "The gap between scientists and journalists: the case of mercury science in Quebec's press." Public Understanding of Science 19(1): 70-79.	This research aimed to better understand the gap between journalists and scientists in the context of the media coverage of an environmental issue in Quebec (Canada). Through in-depth interviews with journalists and scientists, we were able to identify different sources of frustration felt by both protagonists, notably the question of the scientists' revision of the journalists' text, the journalists' lack of accuracy, and the problem of different time frames in the media and the scientific worlds. This study also offered insights for bridging the gaps.

Major, A. M. and L. E. Atwood (2004). "Environmental risks in the news: issues, sources, problems, and values." Public Understanding of Science 13(3): 295-308.	Studies of news media reports of environmental risks generally have observed that environmental news tends to be dramatic and ambiguous with little information that would help the public understand the risks that exist in communities. This analysis was designed to identify differences between environmental news stories that report risks with those that do not. The sample of 841 news stories was drawn from 12,000 stories published between 1 September 1997 and 31 August 1998 in 93 Pennsylvania daily newspapers. Nearly 60% of the news stories and releases did not mention risk. The findings suggest that the environmental issues and the environmental values supporting those issues predicted whether a news story would report risks. Sources, problem definitions, and traditional news values were less useful in differentiating risk from non-risk news stories and releases. The stories provided limited information that would facilitate public understanding of environmental risks.

Makarovs, K. and P. Achterberg (2018). "Science to the people: A 32-nation survey." Public Understanding of Science 27(7): 876-896.	In this article, we analyze Special Eurobarometer (2010) data via multilevel regression modeling and answer two questions: (a) How a country's democratization level is related to the rate of public engagement with science and (b) who are those citizens who participate in science policy-shaping and express their approval for democratic governance of science? Reflexive modernization and institutional alienation perspectives are used to examine those issues. It has been shown that more democratic societies on average have higher rates of public participation in science and support for democratic control of it. Moreover, those well educated and knowledgeable in the topic of science are more likely to engage with science, which supports the reflexive modernization perspective. However, distrust in scientists being considered as an indicator of institutional alienation from science is also crucial in both predicting actual engagement and support for public control over it.

Mallick, S. (2010). "The Complementary Nature of Reality." Science Communication 32(4): 543-544.
	
Mando, J. (2016). "Constructing the vicarious experience of proximity in a Marcellus Shale public hearing." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(3): 352-364.	This paper examines citizen testimony in a public hearing held within the Marcellus Shale region, USA. By focusing on the role of place as an argumentative resource, this analysis reveals an appeal common to both sides of the issue where hearing participants use their knowledge of a place to provide the audience with the vicarious experience of being in that place. Such scene-making not only provides credibility to average citizens, it is also used to negotiate the communal meaning of place. In this negotiation, fracking supporters are found to be less descriptive and provide an "aerial view" of the places they thematize while fracking opponents represent scenes more closely from an "on-the-ground" perspective with a high level of detail. This difference affects how audience members are invited to engage with these scenes, which may impact the acceptance and circulation of these arguments as well as the way people experience the place they live.

Manzini, S. (2003). "Effective communication of science in a culturally diverse society." Science Communication 25(2): 191-197.	This essay outlines three practical issues to consider in order to communicate science effectively in a multicultural society. These are (1) recognition of all cultures in the development of science, (2) equitable use of language in science communication, and (3) mutual critique between science and culture. The essay emphasizes the view that public accessibility into and participation in science are matters of basic human rights, justice, and equity.

Marafiote, T. (2008). "The American Dream: Technology, Tourism, and the Transformation of Wilderness." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(2): 154-172.	For numerous citizens in the early-mid-1900s, the American Dream was synonymous with the consumerism and cultural progress made possible by the significant technological advances instigated by World War II. Merging with post-war increases in economic prosperity and leisure time, these developments also facilitated the excursions of masses of middle-upper-class citizens into nature. In this context, The Wilderness Society (TWS) faced numerous challenges as the ardent consumerism encouraged by the American Dream resulted in expanding threats to wilderness, yet simultaneously created the means for growing public support of its preservation through legislation. The Wilderness Act of 1964, which relied on transformed social conceptions of wilderness for its successful subsequent passage, was achieved through the ways TWS navigated key cultural tensions. Primary among these was the primitivity-civilization dualism, which manifested in shifting human-nature expectations and relations within the cultural formations of World War II, emergent technologies, increasing consumption, and ever-escalating tourism.

Marcinkowski, F., et al. (2014). "Organizational Influence on Scientists' Efforts to Go Public: An Empirical Investigation." Science Communication 36(1): 56-80.	This article contributes to the debate on the influence of organizational settings on scientists' media contact. Drawing on a quantitative survey of researchers (n = 942) from 265 German universities, the results indicate that a large proportion of scientists from all disciplines participate regularly in the dissemination of research findings. The authors provide evidence that scientists' media efforts are influenced by how they adopt their university's desire to be visible in the media, as well as by the university's PR activities. The increased orientation toward news media is discussed in the light of the new governance of science within Europe.

Marcu, A., et al. (2015). "Analogies, metaphors, and wondering about the future: Lay sense-making around synthetic meat." Public Understanding of Science 24(5): 547-562.	Drawing on social representations theory, we explore how the public make sense of the unfamiliar, taking as the example a novel technology: synthetic meat. Data from an online deliberation study and eighteen focus groups in Belgium, Portugal and the UK indicated that the various strategies of sense-making afforded different levels of critical thinking about synthetic meat. Anchoring to genetic modification, metaphors like Frankenfoods' and commonplaces like playing God' closed off debates around potential applications of synthetic meat, whereas asking factual and rhetorical questions about it, weighing up pragmatically its risks and benefits, and envisaging changing current mentalities or behaviours in order to adapt to scientific developments enabled a consideration of synthetic meat's possible implications for agriculture, environment, and society. We suggest that research on public understanding of technology should cultivate a climate of active thinking and should encourage questioning during the process of sense-making to try to reduce unhelpful anchoring.

Mares, M. L., et al. (1999). "Using television to foster children's interest in science." Science Communication 20(3): 283-297.	Two studies explored the conditions that facilitate positive responses to children's television programs involving science. In Study I, children enjoyed televised science content more and learned more from it when it was presented in the context of a related feature story than when it war shown out of this context. Children also responded more positively when the segment was not explicitly labeled as "science." In Study 2, repeated exposure to a weekly children's magazine show with regular segments involving science in context was associated with more favorable attitudes toward science, whether the viewing occurred in school or at home.

Markowitz, E. M., et al. (2017). "A Corporate Scandal that Hits Close to Home: Examining Owners' Responses to the Volkswagen Diesel Emissions Scandal." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 740-755.	The 2015 Volkswagen Group (VW) diesel emissions scandal has affected no group of individuals more directly than owners of the affected vehicles. Yet to date no research has examined in depth how owners have responded to the scandal. This includes not only what owners have already done or plan to do with their vehicles (e.g. repair, participate in the buyback programme) but also their interpersonal communicative actions (e.g. talking with other owners) and attitudinal reactions (e.g. perceptions of the VW-EPA settlement). We conducted two surveysone prior to and one after a settlement was reached between VW and US regulatorsto examine owners' behavioural and attitudinal responses. Here we present descriptive, topline results from these surveys, which reveal relatively strong but heterogeneous owner engagement with the scandal. Owners report significant ambivalence about their own and VW's mitigative options moving forward. Given the role owners will play in mitigating the environmental and health impacts of the scandal, understanding their responses is of critical importance.

Marks, L. A., et al. (2007). "Mass media framing of biotechnology news." Public Understanding of Science 16(2): 183-203.	In fast-changing scientific fields like biotechnology, new information and discoveries should influence the balance of risks and rewards and their associated media coverage. This study investigates how reporters interpret and report such information and, in turn, whether they frame the public debate about biotechnology. Mass media coverage of medical and agricultural biotechnology is compared over a 12-year period and in two different countries: the United States and the United Kingdom. We examine whether media have consistently chosen to emphasize the potential risks over the benefits of these applications, or vice versa, and what information might drive any relevant changes in such frames. We find that the two sets of technologies have been framed differently-more positive for medical applications, more negative for agricultural biotechnology. This result holds over time and across different geographic locations. We also find that international events influence media coverage but have been locally framed. This local newsworthiness extends to both medical and agricultural applications. We conclude that such coverage could have led to differences in public perception of the two sets of technology: more negative (or ambivalent) for agricultural, positive for medical applications. Our findings suggest that understanding news frames, and the events that drive them, provides some insight into the long-term formation of public opinion as influenced by news coverage.

Marks, N. J. (2014). "Speech acts and performances of scientific citizenship: Examining how scientists talk about therapeutic cloning." Public Understanding of Science 23(5): 494-510.	Scientists play an important role in framing public engagement with science. Their language can facilitate or impede particular interactions taking place with particular citizens: scientists' "speech acts" can "perform" different types of "scientific citizenship". This paper examines how scientists in Australia talked about therapeutic cloning during interviews and during the 2006 parliamentary debates on stem cell research. Some avoided complex labels, thereby facilitating public examination of this field. Others drew on language that only opens a space for publics to become educated, not to participate in a more meaningful way. Importantly, public utterances made by scientists here contrast with common international utterances: they did not focus on the therapeutic but the research promises of therapeutic cloning. Social scientists need to pay attention to the performative aspects of language in order to promote genuine citizen involvement in techno-science. Speech Act Theory is a useful analytical tool for this.

Marlinbennett, R. (1995). "International Intellectual Property-Rights in a Web of Social-Relations." Science Communication 17(2): 119-136.	Intellectual property-copyrights, patents, trademarks, and related forms of intangible property-are playing an increasingly important role international relations, especially in the context of technological innovations that facilitate the dissemination and exchange of innovative and creative works. The contributors to this special issue, while addressing various aspects of the international relations of intellectual property, share a theme: the creation and protection of intellectual property involves a complex web of social relations, one in which the participants have duties as wed as rights privileges and liabilities as well as powers. After surveying the historical development of intellectual property, this introductory essay explores areas of consensus and areas of disagreement about these social norms and the international actors (states, firms and individuals, and society) to which they apply.

Marquart, J., et al. (1995). "Believing in Biotech - Farmers Perceptions of the Credibility of Bgh Information-Sources." Science Communication 16(4): 388-402.	The bovine growth hormone (BGH) issue offers a good opportunity to study the credibility of information sources promoting a controversial technology to a public user group, in this care, dairy farmers. It also provides a context in a naturalistic conflict situation for examining the expertise and trustworthiness components of credibility, and how those relate to attitude similarity and extremity. The authors investigated farmers' uses of information sources in evaluating BGH, the credibility attached to various sources, and factors affecting that credibility. As hypothesized, the farmers clearly distinguished between the expertise and trustworthiness attached to BGH information sources. They also rated sources that they perceived as having attitudes similar to their own as more trustworthy but not more expert. Farmers with more extreme attitudes toward BGH significantly downgraded the trustworthiness of several institutional sources and the expertise of a broader range of sources, including certain mass media.

Marques, M. D., et al. (2015). "Attitudes to genetically modified food over time: How trust in organizations and the media cycle predict support." Public Understanding of Science 24(5): 601-618.	This research examined public opinion toward genetically modified plants and animals for food, and how trust in organizations and media coverage explained attitudes toward these organisms. Nationally representative samples (N = 8821) over 10 years showed Australians were less positive toward genetically modified animals compared to genetically modified plants for food, especially in years where media coverage was high. Structural equation modeling found that positive attitudes toward different genetically modified organisms for food were significantly associated with higher trust in scientists and regulators (e.g. governments), and with lower trust in watchdogs (e.g. environmental movement). Public trust in scientists and watchdogs was a stronger predictor of attitudes toward the use of genetically modified plants for food than animals, but only when media coverage was low. Results are discussed regarding the moral acceptability of genetically modified organisms for food, the media's role in shaping public opinion, and the role public trust in organizations has on attitudes toward genetically modified organisms.

Marris, C., et al. (1997). "Exploring the ''psychometric paradigm'': Comparisons between aggregate and individual analyses." Risk Analysis 17(3): 303-312.	The ''psychometric paradigm'' developed by Slovic, Fischhoff, and Lichtenstein was a landmark in research about public attitudes toward risks. One problem with this work, however, was that (at least initially) it did not attempt to distinguish between individuals or groups of people, except ''experts'' vs. ''lay people.'' This paradigm produced a ''cognitive map'' of hazards, and the assumption seemed to be that the characteristics identified were inherent attributes of risk. This paper examines the validity of this assumption. A questionnaire survey similar to those designed by Slovic et al. was conducted, but the data were analyzed at both the aggregate level, using mean scores, and at the level of individuals (N = 131 Norwich residents). The results reported here demonstrate that (1) individuals vary in their perception of the same risk issue; (2) individuals vary in their rating of the same risk characteristics on the same risk issue; and (3) some of the strong intercorrelations observed between risk characteristics at the aggregate level are not supported when the same data are analysed at the level of individuals. Despite these findings, the relationship between risk characteristics and risk perceptions inferred by the psychometric paradigm did hold true at the level of individuals, for most-but not all-of the characteristics. In particular, the relationship between ''lack of knowledge to those exposed'' and risk perceptions appears to be a complex one, a finding which has important implications for risk communication strategies.

Marti, M., et al. (2018). "Communicating Earthquake Preparedness: The Influence of Induced Mood, Perceived Risk, and Gain or Loss Frames on Homeowners' Attitudes Toward General Precautionary Measures for Earthquakes." Risk Analysis 38(4): 710-723.	Despite global efforts to reduce seismic risk, actual preparedness levels remain universally low. Although earthquake-resistant building design is the most efficient way to decrease potential losses, its application is not a legal requirement across all earthquake-prone countries and even if, often not strictly enforced. Risk communication encouraging homeowners to take precautionary measures is therefore an important means to enhance a country's earthquake resilience. Our study illustrates that specific interactions of mood, perceived risk, and frame type significantly affect homeowners' attitudes toward general precautionary measures for earthquakes. The interdependencies of the variables mood, risk information, and frame type were tested in an experimental 2 x 2 x 2 design (N = 156). Only in combination and not on their own, these variables effectively influence attitudes toward general precautionary measures for earthquakes. The control variables gender, trait anxiety index, and alteration of perceived risk adjust the effect. Overall, the group with the strongest attitudes toward general precautionary actions for earthquakes are homeowners with induced negative mood who process high-risk information and gain-framed messages. However, the conditions comprising induced negative mood, low-risk information and loss-frame and induced positive mood, low-risk information and gain-framed messages both also significantly influence homeowners' attitudes toward general precautionary measures for earthquakes. These results mostly confirm previous findings in the field of health communication. For practitioners, our study emphasizes that carefully compiled communication measures are a powerful means to encourage precautionary attitudes among homeowners, especially for those with an elevated perceived risk.

Martin, A. K. and K. P. Donovan (2015). "New surveillance technologies and their publics: A case of biometrics." Public Understanding of Science 24(7): 842-857.	Before a newly-elected government abandoned the project in 2010, for at least eight years the British state actively sought to introduce a mandatory national identification scheme for which the science and technology of biometrics was central. Throughout the effort, government representatives attempted to portray biometrics as a technology that was easily understandable and readily accepted by the public. However, neither task was straightforward. Instead, particular publics emerged that showed biometric technology was rarely well understood and often disagreeable. In contrast to some traditional conceptualizations of the relationship between public understanding and science, it was often those entities that best understood the technology that found it least acceptable, rather than those populations that lacked knowledge. This paper analyzes the discourses that pervaded the case in order to untangle how various publics are formed and exhibit differing, conflicting understandings of a novel technology.

Martin, I. (2011). "Computer." Public Understanding of Science 20(5): 720-720.
	
Martin, I. M., et al. (2007). "What motivates individuals to protect themselves from risks: The case of wildland fires." Risk Analysis 27(4): 887-900.	This research investigates the cognitive perceptual process that homeowners go through when faced with the decision to protect themselves from the risk of wildfires. This decision can be examined by looking at the interaction between the integrated protection motivation theory-transtheoretical model and different levels of homeowners' subjective knowledge related to wildfire risks. We investigated the role of motivation, decision stages of risk readiness, and subjective knowledge on the number of risk-mitigating actions undertaken by homeowners living in high-risk communities. The results indicate that homeowners who are in an early or precontemplative stage (both low and high subjective knowledge) as well as low knowledge contemplatives are motivated by their perceived degree of vulnerability to mitigate the risk. In contrast, high knowledge contemplatives' potential behavioral changes are more likely to be motivated by increasing their perceptions of the severity of the risk. Risk-mitigating behaviors undertaken by high knowledge action homeowners are influenced by their perceptions of risk severity, self-efficacy, and response efficacy. In contrast, the low knowledge action homeowners engage in risk reduction behaviors without the influence of any of the PMT variables; demonstrating their motivation to emulate others in their community. These results have implications for the type of information that should be used to effectively communicate risks in an effort to influence the diverse homeowner segments to engage in risk-reduction behaviors.

Martin, T. (2007). "Muting the Voice of the Local in the Age of the Global: How Communication Practices Compromised Public Participation in India's Allain Dunhangan Environmental Impact Assessment." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(2): 171-193.	Public participation is widely lauded as a way to make environmental decisions more democratic, to improve their quality, and to enhance their legitimacy. Scholars and citizens around the world repeatedly complain, however, that public participation frequently serves primarily as a pro forma exercise to defend predetermined decisions rather than as a meaningful opportunity for the affected public to influence decision-making. These critiques persist despite considerable research suggesting ways to improve the quality of public participation. This essay explores this problem by analyzing citizen involvement in the environmental impact assessment (EIA) processes for the Allain Duhangan hydropower project in northern India. It describes how meaningful public involvement was compromised-despite repeated objections by citizens and independent consultants-by four communication practices: (1) failing to provide adequate access to information; (2) predetermining EIA outcomes by controlling the definition of issues ("definitional hegemony''); (3) privileging scientific/technical discourse; (4) utilizing "consultative'' forms of communication that promote one-way flows of information rather than more interactive forms that encourage the joint construction of information and values. This study further argues that these practices persist because they serve as acts of power that privilege dominant actors and interests in the larger socio-political context. This analysis thus suggests that altering communication practices that compromise the quality of public participation may require attending to the interaction between communication practices, relations of power, and the larger socio-political context in which public participation takes place.

Martin, V., et al. (2016). "Citizens as Scientists: What Influences Public Contributions to Marine Research?" Science Communication 38(4): 495-522.	Public participation in science is burgeoning, yet little is known about factors that influence potential volunteers. We present results from a national survey of 1,145 marine users to uncover the drivers and barriers to a sightings-based, digital marine citizen science project. Knowledge of marine species is the most significant barrier and driver for participation. Many marine users perceive that they have insufficient knowledge of marine species to contribute to the project, yet they expect to learn more about marine species if they were to participate. Contributing to scientific knowledge is also a strong driver for many marine users to participate.

Martin, V. Y. (2017). "Citizen Science as a Means for Increasing Public Engagement in Science: Presumption or Possibility?" Science Communication 39(2): 142-168.	Citizen science is often assumed to increase public science engagement; however, little is known about who is likely to volunteer and the implications for greater societal impact. This study segments 1,145 potential volunteers into six groups according to their current engagement in science (EiS). Results show groups with high levels of EiS are significantly more interested in volunteering and more likely to participate in various research roles than those with lower EiS scores. While citizen science benefits some in science and society, its use as a strategy to bring about positive shifts in public science engagement needs to be reconsidered.

Martin-Sempere, M. J., et al. (2008). "Scientists' motivation to communicate science and technology to the public: surveying participants at the Madrid Science Fair." Public Understanding of Science 17(3): 349-367.	This paper investigates what motivates scientists to communicate science and technology in a science event involving a direct relationship and interaction with the public. A structured questionnaire survey was administered through face-to-face interviews to 167 research practitioners ( researchers, technicians, support staff and fellows) at the Spanish Council for Scientific Research ( CSIC) who participated in the Madrid Science Fair in the years 2001 to 2004. The motivations of members in each professional category are discussed. The most important motivations have to do with the desire to increase the public's interest in and enthusiasm for science, the public's scientific culture, and public awareness and appreciation of science and scientists. Senior researchers were also highly motivated by a sense of duty. Personal satisfaction and enjoyment were important motivations for younger scientists. This research will help to understand the mechanisms of scientists' motivation, and thus foster and encourage greater and better participation in events of this kind.

Martinez-Novo, R., et al. (2018). "Innovation or "Inventions'? The conflict between latent assumptions in marine aquaculture and local fishery." Public Understanding of Science 27(2): 214-228.	Recent European policy highlights the need to promote local fishery and aquaculture by means of innovation and joint participation in fishery management as one of the keys to achieve the sustainability of our seas. However, the implicit assumptions held by the actors in the two main groups involved - innovators (scientists, businessmen and administration managers) and local fishermen - can complicate, perhaps even render impossible, mutual understanding and co-operation. A qualitative analysis of interviews with members of both groups in the Valencian Community (Spain) reveals those latent assumptions and their impact on the respective practices. The analysis shows that the innovation narrative in which one group is based and the inventions narrative used by the other one are rooted in two dramatically different, or even antagonistic, collective worldviews. Any environmental policy that implies these groups should take into account these strong discords.

Masri, R. (2007). "Teaching Amid Despair: Global Warming and Israeli Wars on Lebanon." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(2): 236-242.	Editor's Note: For the past two years, Rania Masri has been an assistant professor in the Department of Environmental Science and a researcher at the Institute of the Environment at the University of Balamand in Lebanon. Prior to that, she was the Director for the Southern Peace Research and Education Center at the Institute for Southern Studies in North Carolina. As a human rights advocate and environmental scientist, she has served as the coordinator of the Iraq Action Coalition (1995-2005), an elected national board member of Peace Action (1997-2005), an elected member of the United for Peace and Justice steering committee (2003-2005), and a state board member of the American Civil Liberties Union (2002-2004). Her research and activism has centered on US domestic and foreign policy on issues ranging from environmental justice and civil rights to anti-war (Iraq) and anti-occupation (Palestine). She has been a regular contributor to a wide range of print, radio, and television media, including Alternative Radio, "Democracy Now!,'' International Socialist Review, and Znet.

Massarani, L. (2003). "Anthology on popularization of science in Mexico." Public Understanding of Science 12(2): 216-217.
	
Massarani, L. (2015). "Voices from other lands." Public Understanding of Science 24(1): 2-5.	Since the early 1990s, research in public understanding of science has significantly increased and become more systematic and academic. However, most of papers published by the main journals in the field have as origin the English-speaking world of the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand: for example, in this very journal, PUS, two-thirds of the empirical material come from these countries. This paper aims both to call attention to unheard voices, and make space for new ones, from other parts of the world, aiming to open space for new voices.

Massarani, L. and I. D. Moreira (2002). "O clone [The clone]." Public Understanding of Science 11(2): 207-208.
	
Massarani, L. and I. D. Moreira (2005). "Attitudes towards genetics: a case study among Brazilian high school students." Public Understanding of Science 14(2): 201-212.	The objective of our study was to investigate young people's attitudes towards modern genetics and biotechnology. Quantitative and qualitative studies were conducted among high school students in Rio de Janeiro. These included a survey of students in nine public and private schools as well as focus groups for a complementary analysis of their attitudes and perceptions with respect to these subjects. We observed that, in general, students are relatively well informed about some of the main issues related to the applications of genetics. In their assessment of the utility, the potential risks, and the need for encouragement of the different techniques used in genetic manipulation, they were able to make clear distinctions between the different purposes of each technique. Most students believed that transgenic food could be useful and that it should be encouraged, but they were also aware that there were risks involved. Furthermore, the students were strongly supportive of the labeling of transgenic food.

Masuda, J. R. and T. Garvin (2006). "Place, culture, and the social amplification of risk." Risk Analysis 26(2): 437-454.	This article investigates the role of culture in the social production of risks and risk communication surrounding industrial development in a region located at a rural-urban interface. A case study examined a public consultation that was undertaken to inform local residents about an eco-industrial development proposal being planned near Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. The research employed the social amplification of risk framework (SARF) to examine the relationships among culture, place, and socially constructed risk. A total of 44 in-depth, semi-structured interviews were carried out with 33 landowners (farmers, acreage owners), public officials (municipal politicians, administrators), journalists, and industry representatives. Analysis revealed that risk communication occurred in relation to situated experiences of place that were based on conflicting cultural worldviews. The research shows that place is a useful component of the SARF, providing a spatial explanation for why some people amplify, and others attenuate, risks in locally contentious environmental debates.

Mather, D. W., et al. (2012). "Social Stigma and Consumer Benefits: Trade-Offs in Adoption of Genetically Modified Foods." Science Communication 34(4): 487-519.	Attitudes toward genetically modified (GM) foods have been extensively studied, but there are very few studies of actual consumer purchasing behavior regarding GM foods offering a consumer benefit. Using a field choice-modeling experiment, the authors investigate the trade-off between price and social desirability in consumer choices with regard to conventional, organic, and GM fruit. What consumers say they will choose in a survey and what they actually choose in a real-purchase situation may differ substantially when their decision is framed by a socially charged issue such as genetic modification. The results are analyzed in relation to established principles of diffusion of innovation.

Matthews, B. (1997). "Research in science education in Europe: Current issues and themes - Welford,G, Osborne,J, Scott,P." Public Understanding of Science 6(2): 215-217.
	
Matthews, J. (2017). "Maintaining a politicised climate of opinion? Examining how political framing and journalistic logic combine to shape speaking opportunities in UK elite newspaper reporting of climate change." Public Understanding of Science 26(4): 467-480.	This article explores the importance of issue politicisation and mediation for the reporting of climate change in UK elite newspapers. Specifically, this investigates how journalistic logic mediates political framing to produce commentaries on and discussion about climate change in the news. In analysing elite newspaper coverage over time in this case, the article shows that (1) various frames introduce the issue as a legitimate problem within coverage and that (2) the news stories these inform are opened to specific commentaries according to elite journalistic logic'. This configuration of coverage orders the speaking opportunities of established voices of science, politics and industry as well as those less established voices that enter to explain and qualify these elite accounts. The article concludes that the ingrained combination of issue politicisation and journalistic logic observed here will likely shape future elite reporting and those voices that it will include.

Matthews, P. (2015). "Why Are People Skeptical about Climate Change? Some Insights from Blog Comments." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(2): 153-168.	Surveys of public opinion show that a significant minority of the population are skeptical about climate change, and many suggest that doubt is increasing. The Internet, in particular the blogosphere, provides a vast and relatively untapped resource of data on the thinking of climate skeptics. This paper focuses on one particular example where over 150 climate skeptics provide information on their background, opinion on climate change, and reasons for their skepticism. Although these data cannot be regarded as representative of the general public, it provides a useful insight into the reasoning of those who publicly question climate science on the Web. Points of note include the high level of educational background, the significant numbers who appear to have been converted from a position of climate concern to one of skepticism, and the influence of blogs on both sides of the climate debate.

Matz, J. and D. Renfrew (2015). "Selling "Fracking": Energy in Depth and the Marcellus Shale." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 288-306.	The development of horizontal hydraulic fracture drilling or ''fracking'' has allowed for the extraction of deep, unconventional shale gas deposits in various shale seams throughout the USA. One such shale seam, the Marcellus shale, extends through New York State, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia, where shale gas development has rapidly increased within the last decade. This has created a boom of economic activity surrounding the energy industry. However, this bounty comes with risks to environmental and public health and has led to divisive community polarization over the issue in the Marcellus shale region. In the face of potential environmental and social disruption, and a great deal of controversy surrounding ''fracking'' the oil and gas industry has had to undertake a myriad of public relations initiatives to legitimize their extraction efforts in the Marcellus shale region, and to frame the shale gas boom in a positive light to stakeholders. This article investigates one such public relations initiative, the Energy in Depth (EID) Northeast Marcellus Initiative. Through qualitative content analysis of EID's online web material, this article examines the ways in which the industry presents and frames natural gas development to the general public. Through appeals to patriotism, the use of environmental imagery, and a claimed commitment to scientific reason, the oil and gas industry uses EID to frame the shale gas extraction process in a positive light, all the while framing those who question or oppose the processes of shale gas extraction as irrational obstructionists.

Mauldin, R. F. (2012). "A Novel Approach to Teaching Scientific Reasoning to Future Journalists: An Intellectual Framework for Evaluating Press Reports About Scientific Research." Science Communication 34(2): 283-291.	A novel approach to teaching scientific reasoning and writing to science journalism students, as presented here, shows considerable promise. First, the pedagogical approach and a description of seven types of common episodes in the experimental testing of models are outlined. Then, a rubric for evaluating the quality of reasoning is presented. Science writers can use this scheme to identify patterns in scientific reasoning as they interview practicing scientists and write press releases.

Maxim, L., et al. (2013). "Public reception of scientific uncertainty in the endocrine disrupter controversy: the case of male fertility." Journal of Risk Research 16(6): 677-695.	Scientific controversies are associated with significant uncertainty. Despite this uncertainty, available knowledge must be communicated to the public, who are potentially at risk. There are contradictions in the existing literature about the value of communicating uncertainty associated with science. Some scientists and decision-makers believe that communicating uncertainty to the public will produce panic and confusion, and will discredit science. Others believe that uncertainty must be communicated to increase trust in science. We tested reactions to communication about uncertainty related to the controversial link between exposure to endocrine disrupters and a decline in human male fertility. Our empirical setup used focus groups and qualitative analysis of participants' perceived uncertainty and their emotions. The results show that laypeople raise more and different uncertainties than those communicated by researchers. Moreover, laypeople did not react to uncertainty globally;' they had different reactions to the different sources of uncertainty. Uncertainty did not elicit panic in this case study. Rather, uncertainty was reassuring, except when it was associated with an inability to precisely identify and, therefore, control the cause of male reproductive disorders. We discuss the emotions expressed and their relationships with communication about scientific uncertainty (powerlessness, guilt, outrage, etc.). We also note that feelings of confusion increase after uncertainty has been communicated.

Mayhew, M. A. and M. K. Hall (2012). "Science Communication in a Cafe Scientifique for High School Teens." Science Communication 34(4): 546-554.	The authors' adaptation of the popular Cafe Scientifique model has proven to be effective for communicating science to a high school teen audience. Their process for achieving effective science communication between scientist-presenters and teens focuses on overcoming the "information deficit" mode of presentation that most scientists are trained for. Their coaching stresses that effective science communication requires engagement on a personal level that meets the audience where it is in terms of both prior knowledge and social context, while making connections to the teens' daily lives. Scientist-presenters report strong satisfaction with the coaching process and the resulting quality of science communication.

Maynard, C. M. and S. Shackley (2018). "Framing and bias in CO2 capture and storage communication films: Reflections from a CO2 capture and storage research group." Public Understanding of Science 27(5): 550-561.	There has been a growing trend towards incorporating short, educational films as part of research funding and project proposals. Researchers and developers in CO2 capture and storage are using films to communicate outcomes, but such films can be influenced by experiences and values of the producers. We document the content and presentation of seven online CO2 capture and storage films to determine how framing occurs and its influence on the tone of films. The core frame presents CO2 capture and storage as a potential solution to an imminent crisis in climatic warming and lack of a sustainable energy supply. Three subsidiary frames represent CO2 capture and storage as (1) the only option, (2) a partial option or (3) a scientific curiosity. The results demonstrate that an understanding of the nuanced explicit and implicit messages portrayed by films is essential both for effective framing according to one's intention and for wider public understanding of a field.

Maynard, L. (2018). "Media Framing of Zoos and Aquaria: From Conservation to Animal Rights." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 177-190.	Zoos and aquaria are controversial institutions, vilified by animal rights activists and championed by those who value their entertainment and educational resources. Examining media frames of these institutions can identify public perspectives. A qualitative content analysis was conducted for print and online magazine articles that discussed zoos and aquaria in North America. Sixty-five articles were analysed, and eight different frames were identified. The diverse frames highlight the differing roles of zoos and aquaria. Most of the articles were positive and supportive of zoos; 11% were negative. Animal welfare was the most common frame, from both positive and negative perspectives. Other frames, such as conservation and education, were less prevalent in the sample than expected, since zoos and aquaria portray themselves to be leaders in these fields. The unbalanced media discourse and small publication rate over the four years sampled suggest opportunities for increased media engagement on zoos and aquaria.

Mayor, E., et al. (2013). "Dynamic social representations of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic: Shifting patterns of sense-making and blame." Public Understanding of Science 22(8): 1011-1024.	We investigate dynamics of public perceptions of the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic to understand changing patterns of sense-making and blame regarding the outbreak of emerging infectious diseases. We draw on social representation theory combined with a dramaturgical perspective to identify changes in how various collectives are depicted over the course of the pandemic, according to three roles: heroes, villains and victims. Quantitative results based on content analysis of three cross-sectional waves of interviews show a shift from mentions of distant collectives (e.g., far-flung countries) at Wave 1 to local collectives (e.g., risk groups) as the pandemic became of more immediate concern (Wave 2) and declined (Wave 3). Semi-automated content analysis of media coverage shows similar results. Thematic analyses of the discourse associated with collectives revealed that many were consistently perceived as heroes, villains and victims.

Mazur, A. (2000). "Environmental risks and the media." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 462-463.
	
Mazur, A. (2009). "How Bad Can a Crisis Be If It Does Not Top the News ?" Risk Analysis 29(6): 793-795.	Sudden onset of front-page news about the U.S. financial crisis, beginning September 6, 2008, may have exacerbated underlying financial problems and facilitated the spread of risk panic to other nations.

Mazur, A. (2016). "How did the fracking controversy emerge in the period 2010-2012?" Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 207-222.	In 2010-2012, the controversy over fracking grew rapidly, first in the United States, and then internationally. An important step was the anti-fracking documentary film Gasland. With help from celebrity sources, the film was produced and won a prize at the Sundance Film Festival by early 2010 and had an Oscar nomination by early 2011, in the meantime popularizing potent images of hazard including tainted aquifers and ignitable water running from kitchen faucets. During this period, major US news organizations paid little attention to the issue. The offshore Deepwater Horizon disaster of April 2010 spurred The New York Times to prolific reporting on potential risks of the new onshore technique for extracting shale gas. With flagship news coverage, the controversy had by 2012 gained wide media attention that evoked public concern and opposition, spreading from the United States to other nations.

McArthur, L. C. (1998). "Report: The portrayal of women in science books for junior readers." Science Communication 20(2): 247-261.	This case study examines the portrayal of women in three types of science books written for pre-adolescent girls and available in bookstores and a public library in Montgomery County Maryland. The results suggest that images of scientists in general science books tend to be representative of both sexes, whereas science histories and encyclopedias focus on men's contributions. Biographies of women scientists deliver mixed messages. These:books generally imply that women can simultaneously be scientists and have "normal" lives, but that only the most extraordinary and exceptional women achieve this because of the adversity, discrimination, and loneliness that women scientists face.

McCain, K. and K. Kampourakis (2018). "Which question do polls about evolution and belief really ask, and why does it matter?" Public Understanding of Science 27(1): 2-10.	Data from studies conducted to determine acceptance rates for evolution are often misleading. The questions that are asked and compared to one another do not always give an authentic picture of respondents' views. Quite often, polls, such as those by IPSOS, Gallup, and PEW, also run together questions asking respondents' beliefs in concepts like God with questions asking respondents' beliefs about concepts like evolution. The two are distinct and should not be confused. One might believe in evolution while having wrong beliefs about it, whereas someone else might decide not to believe in evolution while having accurate beliefs about it. Distinguishing between belief in and belief about might help remove an unrecognized confounding element from these studies.

Mccain, K. W. (1995). "Mandating Sharing - Journal Policies in the Natural-Sciences." Science Communication 16(4): 403-431.	Of approximately 850 natural science, medical, and engineering journals, 132 have at least one policy statement in their ''instructions to authors'' concerning (1) deposition of sequence or structure data in a data bank before publication, (2) deposition or sharing of research materials upon request and (3) the availability of supplementary publication services. Compliance enforcement mechanisms include refusal to publish without evidence of deposition and editor author negotiation if research materials were denied. The enhanced ''gatekeeper'' role of these journals is a response to expressed concerns that research-related information continue to be available to the research community.

McCarthy, M., et al. (2008). "Media risk communication - what was said by whom and how was it interpreted." Journal of Risk Research 11(3): 375-394.	The purpose of this paper is to provide some insight into the level and type of media coverage that food risks received and consider the translation of press releases into media articles. Past scientific messages dealing with two food risks (Salmonella and Genetically Modified (GM) potatoes) were collected from various Irish media sources over a defined period. In addition, press releases and helpline data were collected. All data pieces were subsequently coded. Based on the audit it is clear that island of Ireland journalists are generally balanced with regard to their reporting on Salmonella. In most cases where press releases could be linked to the newspaper articles, the press release was represented fairly accurately. This brings into clear focus the need by those issuing press releases to be very clear on the meaning of their message. Journalists are using the press releases as the basis for articles therefore vague terms and overemphasis on a particular finding can result in what may appear as a sensational article. In the case of GMs more sensational hooks were used to draw attention to the articles. Thus communicators need to be aware of the characteristics of the risk they are communicating about when designing and delivering a risk message.

McComas, K. A. (2003). "Public meetings and risk amplification: A longitudinal study." Risk Analysis 23(6): 1257-1270.	This article offers longitudinal data tracking people who did and did not attend a series of public meetings in an upstate New York rural community grappling with the expansion of an existing solid waste landfill and remediation of an adjacent inactive hazardous waste site. Before and after the public meetings, mailed questionnaires measured risk perceptions and perceived credibility of risk managers (here, the state government agencies and the responsible industry) conducting the meetings. Respondents at each measurement point included meeting attendees and nonattendees, with some fluctuation over time when attendees at one measurement point were nonattendees at the next and vice versa. The results from the first survey indicate that following the first two public meetings, attendees perceived greater risks from the waste sites than did nonattendees; attendees also perceived the risk managers as less credible. After the third public meeting, the results showed that attendees' risk perceptions remained steady; however, perceptions of government agency credibility significantly decreased. After the fourth public meeting, the survey found that attendees' risk perceptions were again not significantly different, whereas perceptions of government agency credibility increased significantly. The industry's credibility also increased, though only among attendees who had attended the most recent public meeting, not among attendees who had attended both the third and fourth public meetings. For nonattendees, risk perceptions and credibility ratings did not change. The discussion examines how distinctive characteristics of communication at each public meeting may have resulted in different effects and proposes hypotheses for future research.

McComas, K. A. (2014). "Perspective on 'Four Questions for Risk Communication'." Journal of Risk Research 17(10): 1273-1276.
	
McComas, K. A., et al. (2010). "Public meetings about local cancer clusters: exploring the relative influence of official versus symbolic risk messages on attendees' post-meeting concern." Journal of Risk Research 13(6): 753-770.	Scholars have long lobbied for a view of risk communication that supplants a conventional 'transmission' model of risk communication with an alternative that considers the complex social environment that accompanies any risk communication effort. Along these lines, this study examines the relative influence of official health messages versus symbolic risk messages on public meeting attendees' post-meeting concern about cancer clusters in six US communities. As part of a larger study of cancer clusters, we obtained written responses from 125 individuals who attended a government-sponsored public meeting in their community. We asked respondents whether attending the meeting influenced their concerns and, if so, why. The results found that, despite the largely reassuring messages that health officials were giving, most attendees reported feeling more concerned after the meetings in their communities. Regarding why, explanations that denoted symbolic risk messages - unofficial sources of risk information and procedural cues - outnumbered explanations that pointed to official risk messages - scientific presentations - by a score of three to one. The results lend support for a broader view of risk communication, which accounts not only for multiple sources of risk information but also for procedural cues regarding the trustworthiness of an investigation.

McComas, K. A. and L. M. Simone (2003). "Media coverage of conflicts of interest in science." Science Communication 24(4): 395-419.	Some scientists are concerned that too much news media coverage of conflicts of interest in science threatens the public's belief in the integrity of the field, whereas other scientists worry that news media do not pay enough attention to conflicts of interest. To examine news media coverage of conflicts of interest in science, we conducted a ten-year content analysis of stories from the New York Times, Washington Post, Los Angeles Times, and USA Today. The results suggest a steady stream of stories highlighting negative aspects of conflicts of interest in science.

McComas, K. A. and C. W. Trumbo (2001). "Source credibility in environmental health-risk controversies: Application of Meyer's credibility index." Risk Analysis 21(3): 467-480.	This article applies an existing five-item index for measuring source credibility in the context of environmental health-risk controversy. Survey data were gathered in five upstate New York communities facing environmental health-risk issues. Analysis of the five case studies and a combined dataset (N = 870) show that the credibility index was consistently reliable across all applications. Use of the resulting index is demonstrated through a comparison of the credibility of the New York State Department of Health (active in each case), the industries associated with each case, and the newspaper providing coverage of each case. The credibility index was used to predict risk judgments in a structural equation model. Overall, the analysis demonstrated that the credibility index performed consistently well across the five cases and illuminated important differences in each. As such, the index should be a useful addition to many environmental health and risk communication studies.

McComas, K. A., et al. (2005). "Conflicted scientists: the "shared pool" dilemma of scientific advisory committees." Public Understanding of Science 14(3): 285-303.	Science advisors play a critical role in government policy making, yet these advisors are often equally attractive to regulated industry. Despite efforts to manage conflicts of interest among science advisors, allegations of conflict frequently plague advisory committee deliberations or outcomes. This article examines what we term the "shared pool" dilemma using data collected from 92 members of I I US Food and Drug Administration advisory committees. The results suggested science advisors were generally positive about their experiences on advisory committees and viewed the committee process as impartial. Written comments suggested that advisors linked the neutrality of the process to the success of the FDA's conflict-of-interest procedures. Even so, the advisors acknowledged the challenges associated with recruiting disinterested and qualified scientists to serve on advisory committees, reflecting the shared pool dilemma. Many advisors seemed more troubled about advisors participating when they lacked expertise than when they had minor conflicts of interest.

McGaurr, L., et al. (2015). "Wilderness and the Media Politics of Place Branding." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(3): 269-287.	It is 30 years since the Australian environmental movement enlisted the term wilderness to protect Tasmania's remote Franklin River from hydroelectric development. Environmentalists deployed wilderness strategically during the conflict to build public support for their no-dam campaign, aided by national and international media who used the term liberally, while Tasmanian news media and pro-development elites acknowledged the term's inherent political qualities by suppressing its use. Our interest is in the political and media framing of wilderness since the concept was branded by government and industry at the turn of the twenty-first century. Drawing on continuing environmental conflict over Tasmania's remote Tarkine region as a case study, we ask to what extent media portrayals of wilderness have changed since the Franklin dam was stopped and the Tasmanian World Heritage Wilderness Area was created in 1982. Using content analysis of related articles in the local media and qualitative analysis of international travel journalism about Tasmania published over an extended period, we find that place branding has contributed to the routinization of wilderness and to a shift in the focus of mediated conflict from wilderness to tourism. The Tasmanian experience demonstrates that while the actions of the environmental movement can valorize place, branding can depoliticize contested natural areas. Yet brands that incorporate or allude to wilderness may have the unanticipated consequence of valorizing wilderness transnationally, in a manner that the environmental movement would struggle to emulate.

McGillion, C. (2017). "Animation as a Science Communication Tool in Timor-Leste." Science Communication 39(2): 278-285.	This article examines the trial of animated video to disseminate new agricultural knowledge among subsistence farmers in Timor-Leste, a small underdeveloped country in Southeast Asia. The aim of the trial was to test the potential for this approach to supply clear, accurate, and engaging information to rural communities where rates of adult illiteracy are high and mass media consumption is low. The findings point to the potential for animation to be used to communicate scientific knowledge in situations where approaches regularly employed in developing countries are unavailable or would be limited in their reach.

McGillion, C. and M. McKinnon (2014). "Participatory Theater as a Science Communication Tool in Timor Leste." Science Communication 36(4): 502-510.	This article examines the trial of participatory theater for disseminating new agricultural knowledge among subsistence farmers in Timor Leste, a small underdeveloped country in the Asia-Pacific region. The aim of the trial was to provide information on improved seed varieties and appropriate agronomic practices to maximize their yield among rural communities where rates of adult illiteracy are high and the reach of mass media forms of communication is low. The findings highlight the potential for entertainment-education forms to provide effective science communication tools in contexts where approaches more typical in developed countries are severely constrained.

McGowan, A. H. (1997). "But is it true? A citizen's guide to environmental health and safety issues - Wildavsky,A." Public Understanding of Science 6(4): 431-433.
	
McGowan, A. H. (1997). "Science, nonscience, and nonsense: Approaching environmental literacy - Zimmerman,M." Public Understanding of Science 6(4): 431-433.
	
McGowan, A. H. (2006). "Nature's experts: Science, politics and the environment." Public Understanding of Science 15(2): 251-252.
	
McGreavy, B. (2016). "Resilience as Discourse." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(1): 104-121.	Resilience as a frame is increasingly appearing in grant funding, news stories, academic journals, and organization missions. Across these sites, resilience is positioned as an ability to cope, characterized by bouncing back, regaining control, and reducing vulnerability to change. How did resilience come to be understood in these terms? What are the problems with resilience's frames and the practices that produce them? How might we become resilient differently? Using a Foucaultian archaeology, I examine sites and practices that produce resilience as discourse. I analyze resilience's origins in biophysical sciences, systems perspectives that define ways of knowing, visual models that constrain the emergence of new ideas, and persistent dialectics that narrowly order relationships within the world. I propose changes in the discourse for more affective and ecological modes of becoming resilient.

McGreavy, B. (2016). "Chaos and cosmos: literary roots of modern ecology in British nineteenth century." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 815-816.
	
McHendry, G. F. (2012). "Whale Wars and the Axiomatization of Image Events on the Public Screen." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(2): 139-155.	The essay interrogates Animal Planet's television show Whale Wars, and the use of footage from that show in a commercial for one of the network's other shows, How Stuff Works, to examine the way these texts interact within the public screen. I argue that the (re) presentation of whale kill footage further instantiates an image event as a commodity and rhetorically reconciles the image event into a capitalist ideology counter to the social movement message constructed on Whale Wars-and by proxy allows the image event to play out only via a profit-motive tied to the death of the whale.

McInerney, C., et al. (2004). "The flow of scientific knowledge from lab to the lay public - The case of genetically modified food." Science Communication 26(1): 44-74.	This article reports on a study of how scientific knowledge about genetically modified (GM)food flows to the American public, focusing on language and message genres in the scientific literature, newspapers, and popular magazines. A comprehensive search of these literatures from 1992 to 2002 revealed a publishing pattern of scientific communication that contrasted with that found in the lay press. Examination of this difference led researchers to a scientific study on the effect of GM corn pollen on the Monarch butterfly. The case study of the discourse surrounding this event demonstrates how press releases affect what is published in the popular press. The role of this event in generating subtle repercussions in the perceptions of U.S. consumers, similar to the ripple effects found in Kasperson's social amplification of risk theory, is analyzed and reported.

McKeever, B. W. (2013). "News Framing of Autism: Understanding Media Advocacy and the Combating Autism Act." Science Communication 35(2): 213-240.	This study explores agenda setting, framing, and the concepts of media advocacy and mobilizing information through content analysis of The New York Times and The Washington Post news coverage of autism from 1996 to 2006, the year the Combating Autism Act was passed. Findings revealed that science frames decreased over time, while policy frames increased. Medical, government, family, and nonprofit sources were most common in news coverage. Solutions were mentioned more frequently than causes; however, mobilizing information was limited. Theoretical implications and practical applications are discussed.

McKinnon, M. and C. Bryant (2017). "Thirty Years of a Science Communication Course in Australia: Genesis and Evolution of a Degree." Science Communication 39(2): 169-194.	Since 1985, the Science Circus program has recruited science graduates Australia-wide and provided them with science communication training leading to a university degree. On qualifying these graduates demonstrate highly diverse career paths reflecting the relevance of science communication training to other disciplines. Graduates, by their activities, have contributed to the growth of science communication as an academic discipline and an industryboth in Australia and abroad. It suggests that science communication training can have impact far beyond narrowly defined disciplines and skill sets, and this impact is worthy of further exploration.

McKinnon, M., et al. (2018). "Perils and positives of science journalism in Australia." Public Understanding of Science 27(5): 562-577.	Scientists, science communicators and science journalists interact to deliver science news to the public. Yet the value of interactions between the groups in delivering high-quality science stories is poorly understood within Australia. A recent study in New Zealand on the perspectives of the three groups on the challenges facing science journalism is replicated here in the context of New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. While all three groups perceived the quality of science journalism as generally high, the limitations of non-specialists and public relation materials were causes for concern. The results indicate that science communicators are considered to play a valuable role as facilitators of information flow to journalists and support for scientists. Future studies on the influence and implications of interactions between these three groups are required.

McLaughlin-Jenkins, E. (2003). "Walking the low road: the pursuit of scientific knowledge in late Victorian working-class communities." Public Understanding of Science 12(2): 147-166.	For late-century Victorians, science was everywhere part of the culture, but current studies are mainly concerned with the cultural elite. This is because the formal "high road" of official schooling, expensive reading materials, and memberships in prestigious scientific societies required both time and money, both of which were in short supply in the laboring sector. In contrast, this article looks at an alternate path: the "low road." It is the road of unofficial schooling, cheap reading materials, local clubs, and shared community resources that served up ample opportunity to satisfy working-class scientific curiosity and intellectual hunger. As part of both common knowledge and as an intellectual prop for working-class emancipation, the facts of science and the authority that went with them were appropriated at varying levels by the working-class community. Science was a fundamental component of leisure, self-improvement, and political ideology, as working men, women, and children took the low road to greater participation in the life of the nation. Defining and mapping the low road is crucial for current scholarship in the history of science, which neglects working-class issues, and for working-class history, which neglects the relevance of science in the formation of modem social and political ideologies.

McLeod, C. and P. Hobson-West (2016). "Opening up animal research and science-society relations? A thematic analysis of transparency discourses in the United Kingdom." Public Understanding of Science 25(7): 791-806.	The use of animals in scientific research represents an interesting case to consider in the context of the contemporary preoccupation with transparency and openness in science and governance. In the United Kingdom, organisations critical of animal research have long called for more openness. More recently, organisations involved in animal research also seem to be embracing transparency discourses. This article provides a detailed analysis of publically available documents from animal protection groups, the animal research community and government/research funders. Our aim is to explore the similarities and differences in the way transparency is constructed and to identify what more openness is expected to achieve. In contrast to the existing literature, we conclude that the slipperiness of transparency discourses may ultimately have transformative implications for the relationship between science and society and that contemporary openness initiatives might be sowing the seeds for change to the status quo.

McNew-Birren, J. (2014). "Public understanding of local lead contamination." Public Understanding of Science 23(8): 929-946.	Residents of Herculaneum, Missouri have been influential in shaping the management of contamination challenges resulting from the community's proximity to the last primary lead processing plant in the United States. This paper provides a nuanced examination of two perspectives of resident activist groups involved in lead-related controversy in Herculaneum. Ethnographic data collection and storyline analysis were used to trace the evolution in local views from resembling an industrialist-environmentalist dichotomy to more compromising positions associated with ecological modernization. Implications for characterizing public environmental perspectives in the US as beginning to entertain certain aspects of the ecological modernist paradigm are discussed.

McNulty, P. J., et al. (1998). "Communicating under section 112(r) of the Clean Air Act amendments." Risk Analysis 18(2): 191-197.	Regulations under Section 112(r) of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments require fixed facilities having threshold quantities of materials on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's list of regulated substances to disclose to the general public the expected offsite consequences of worst-case accidental chemical releases. This paper describes the communication practices of small firms in Delaware and New Jersey and the practical problems these facilities might encounter complying with the proposed rule. The paper reports an interesting difference between the apprehension voiced by small firms required to report worst-case release information and the public's apparent lack of interest in such information. Unlike the difficulty expected by small firms in calculating and communicating worst-case chemical release information, this paper includes some observations on the ability of large chemical firms to comply with the proposed requirements.

Medina-Domenech, R. M. and A. Menendez-Navarro (2005). "Cinematic representations of medical technologies in the Spanish official newsreel, 1943-1970." Public Understanding of Science 14(4): 393-408.	NO-DO, the Spanish official newsreel produced by Franco's dictatorship (1939-1975), held a 30-year monopoly over audio-visual information in Spain from 1943 to 1975. This paper reports on an analysis of the coverage of medical technologies by the Spanish Cinematic Newsreel Service, NO-DO, from 1943 to 1970. The study focuses on the changing roles played by cultural representations of medical technologies deployed in NO-DO. Our analysis shows how these representations offered a new space for the legitimization of the regime and, more importantly, played a key role in the attempts to construct and enforce a hegemonic national identity after the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939). During the period of isolationist autocracy that ended in the mid-1950s, the images of medical technologies reinforced the idea of a self-sufficient "national space" and deepened the break with the historical past. Once the international isolation of the regime was overcome in the late 1950s and the 1960s, the representation of medical technologies contributed to establishing a Spanish national identity that mirrored the outside world, the foreign space. Finally, gender representations in NO-DO are also explored.

Meehan, S. and J. A. Valentine (1994). "Research Champions - Translating Research and Reinventing Government Health-Care." Science Communication 16(1): 90-101.	The U.S. federal government has played a key role in the evolution of health care research in the twentieth century. Yet, while funds have provided support for training investigators, building facilities, and conducting research into the causes and cures of diseases, only recently has there been significant work on the delivery of health care services. The challenge now is to convert the results of such research into changes in the health care system. Demonstration of the role of active leadership in translating research results into improved health care at the U.S. Department of veterans Affairs may serve as a model for similar efforts.

Meertens, R. M. and R. Liona (2011). "The effects of risk-taking tendency on risk choice and pre- and post-decisional information selection." Journal of Risk Research 14(6): 647-656.	Ideally, people seek and select information about unfamiliar risks with which they are confronted, before they make a risk choice. This study investigated what happens when people do not have this opportunity. The main question was how risk-taking tendency influences intuitive risk decisions and how this impacts subsequent information search and subsequent choices. In the present study, participants had to make a choice about an unfamiliar risk, either before or after they had had the opportunity to search for (risk-promoting or risk-averse) information. In the condition where they could only seek for information after they had made a choice, they had to reconsider their first choice and make a second risk choice. We expected that (1) risk-taking tendency would impact people's risk choices, but only in the situation where they have little information. On the basis of cognitive dissonance theory, it was furthermore predicted that (2) risk-taking tendency and (3) initial risk choice would affect risk information selection. Furthermore, we predicted that (4) the first risk choice and (5) the risk information selected would influence the subsequent risk choice. The results suggest that if people make a first, intuitive decision about an unknown risk, risk-taking tendency has an effect on the choice, but that this does not happen when people can first select information. Risk-taking tendency did not influence information selection, but initial choice did (although in another way than we expected). Furthermore, both the first risk choice and the risk information selected affected subsequent risk choices. These findings suggest that people often make initial intuitive decisions that are influenced by personality characteristics, and that are subsequently difficult to change.

Mehmet, M. and P. Simmons (2018). "Kangaroo Court? An Analysis of Social Media Justifications for Attitudes to Culling." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(3): 370-386.	There are heated debates in Australia for and against culling kangaroos. Understanding community attitudes to wildlife management may aid strategic communication, leading to better outcomes for humans and wildlife. For decision-makers, social media present tantalizingly available attitude data. Using the appraisal framework, this study analyzed attitudes toward kangaroo culling expressed in Facebook discussions. Scholarly wildlife attitude models provide useful descriptors and categories but do not account for the complexity and contradictions within individuals' attitudes to culling kangaroos. The findings reveal conflation of human interests and attitudes to culling; proponents generally justified culling with reference to financial cost or harm reduction. Opponents of culling argued that human convenience and economics do not justify taking the lives of kangaroos. Proponents and opponents often attacked each other based on perceived personal and ideological differences, ignoring the substance or validity of others' comments. An urban-rural divide promulgated by some culling proponents may fuse cultural/political allegiances with attitudes to culling in ways that undermine kangaroo welfare. Humans charged with wildlife management and decision-making should aim to make assessments that benefit wildlife as well as humans. Future research on decision-making should elucidate relationships between human interest and decisions and communication concerning animal welfare.

Meijnders, A., et al. (2009). "The Role of Similarity Cues in the Development of Trustin Sources of Information About GM Food." Risk Analysis 29(8): 1116-1128.	In evaluating complex new technologies, people are usually dependent on information provided by others, for example, experts or journalists, and have to determine whether they can trust these information sources. This article focuses on similarity as the basis for trust. The first experiment (N = 261) confirmed that a journalist writing about genetically modified (GM) food was trusted more when his attitude was congruent with that of his readers. In addition, the experiment showed that this effect was mediated by the perceived similarity of the journalist. The second experiment (N = 172) revealed that trust in a journalist writing about the focal domain of GM food was even influenced by him expressing a congruent attitude in an unrelated domain. This result supports a general similarity account of the congruence effect on trust, as opposed to a confirmatory bias account.

Meijnders, A. L., et al. (2001). "Role of negative emotion in communication about CO(2) risks." Risk Analysis 21(5): 955-966.	This article describes how the effectiveness of risk communication is determined by the interaction between emotional and informative elements. An experiment is described that examined the role of negative emotion in communication about CO, risks. This experiment was based on the elaboration likelihood model and the related heuristic systematic model of attitude formation. The results indicated that inducing fear of CO, risks leads to systematic processing of information about energy conservation as a risk-reducing strategy. In turn, this results in more favorable attitudes toward energy conservation if strong arguments are provided. Individual differences in concern seem to have similar effects.

Meillier, L. K., et al. (1997). "The backpack function of health education - Use of knowledge types concerning prevention of coronary heart disease." Science Communication 18(3): 216-237.	How do people make use of health education materials? In this article, the authors distinguish between four different types of knowledge concerning health: theoretical knowledge about causes of illness, applied knowledge about how to lead a healthier everyday life, experiential knowledge about the consequences of action, and intuitive subconscious knowledge about what one ought to do. The article suggests that knowledge has a backpack function, that is, that health education has an indirect effect on changes in lifestyle through the filling of the knowledge backpack, with which new experiences and information are then compared.

Meisenberg, G. (2009). "Designer babies on tap? Medical students' attitudes to pre-implantation genetic screening." Public Understanding of Science 18(2): 149-166.	This paper describes two studies about the determinants of attitudes to pre-implantation genetic screening in a multicultural sample of medical students from the United States. Sample sizes were 292 in study 1 and 1464 in study 2. Attitudes were of an undifferentiated nature, but respondents did make a major distinction between use for disease prevention and use for enhancement. No strong distinctions were made between embryo selection and germ line gene manipulations, and between somatic gene therapy and germ line gene manipulations. Religiosity was negatively associated with acceptance of "designer baby" technology for Christians and Muslims but not Hindus. However, the strongest and most consistent influence was an apparently moralistic stance against active and aggressive interference with natural processes in general. Trust in individuals and institutions was unrelated to acceptance of the technology, indicating that fear of abuse by irresponsible individuals and corporations is not an important determinant of opposition.

Meisner, M. S. and B. Takahashi (2013). "The Nature of Time: How the Covers of the World's Most Widely Read Weekly News Magazine Visualize Environmental Affairs." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(2): 255-276.	Scholars of environmental communication acknowledge the importance of visual representations in shaping perceptions and actions in relation to environmental affairs. Unlike with other media, including newspapers, television and film, research on the visualization of nature and environmental issues in magazines is rare. This study focuses on the covers of Time magazine, one of the world's most influential news weeklies. A dataset that includes all relevant covers from 1923 to 2011 is examined using a combination of quantitative and qualitative content analysis to analyze the visual representation of nature and environmental issues. The results show that the presence of environmental issues and nature on the covers has increased over the decades. Furthermore, Time takes an advocacy position on some environmental issues, but it is a shallow one that is weakly argued through less-than-engaging imagery and fails to offer much in the way of solutions or agency to the reader.

Mejlgaard, N. (2018). "Science's disparate responsibilities: Patterns across European countries." Public Understanding of Science 27(3): 262-275.	It is a distinctive feature of European science policy that science is expected to meet economic and broader societal objectives simultaneously. Science should be governed democratically and take significant responsibilities towards the economy, the political system and civil society, but the coherency of these multiple claims is underexplored. Using metrics that emerge from both quantitative and qualitative studies, we examine the interrelatedness of different responsibilities at the level of countries. A total of 33 European Union member states and associated countries are included in the analysis. We find no trade-off between economic and broader societal contributions. Europe is, however, characterised by major divisions in terms of the location of science in society. There is a significant East-West divide, and Europe appears to be far from accomplishing an integrated European Research Area.

Mejlgaard, N. and S. Stares (2010). "Participation and competence as joint components in a cross-national analysis of scientific citizenship." Public Understanding of Science 19(5): 545-561.	Recent years have witnessed a 'democratic turn' towards active citizen participation in science and technology. The emerging participatory approach has been framed as a critique of a reductionist, outdated 'deficit model' of citizen competence, literacy or understanding. Participatory modes of citizen involvement with science are presented as competing rather than complementary in offering a strategy for making science and technology accountable and open to society. We use latent class models to develop cross-national measures of competence and participation, and explore the relation between the two. We argue that the question of how to analyze and assess the role of citizens in knowledge societies should not be an either/or - participation or competence - but a matter of understanding the balance and interconnectedness of both. We suggest that the idea of a 'scientific citizenship' could be a useful integrative notion to bridge the divide between concerns about public participation and public competence.

Mejlgaard, N. and S. Stares (2013). "Performed and preferred participation in science and technology across Europe: Exploring an alternative idea of "democratic deficit"." Public Understanding of Science 22(6): 660-673.	Republican ideals of active scientific citizenship and extensive use of deliberative, democratic decision making have come to dominate the public participation agenda, and academic analyses have focused on the deficit of public involvement vis-a-vis these normative ideals. In this paper we use latent class models to explore what Eurobarometer survey data can tell us about the ways in which people participate in tacit or in policy-active ways with developments in science and technology, but instead of focusing on the distance between observed participation and the dominant, normative ideal of participation, we examine the distance between what people do, and what they themselves think is appropriate in terms of involvement. The typology of citizens emerging from the analyses entails an entirely different diagnosis of democratic deficit, one that stresses imbalance between performed and preferred participation.

Meldrum, J. R., et al. (2015). "Understanding Gaps Between the Risk Perceptions of Wildland-Urban Interface (WUI) Residents and Wildfire Professionals." Risk Analysis 35(9): 1746-1761.	Research across a variety of risk domains finds that the risk perceptions of professionals and the public differ. Such risk perception gaps occur if professionals and the public understand individual risk factors differently or if they aggregate risk factors into overall risk differently. The nature of such divergences, whether based on objective inaccuracies or on differing perspectives, is important to understand. However, evidence of risk perception gaps typically pertains to general, overall risk levels; evidence of and details about mismatches between the specific level of risk faced by individuals and their perceptions of that risk is less available. We examine these issues with a paired data set of professional and resident assessments of parcel-level wildfire risk for private property in a wildland-urban interface community located in western Colorado, United States. We find evidence of a gap between the parcel-level risk assessments of a wildfire professional and numerous measures of residents' risk assessments. Overall risk ratings diverge for the majority of properties, as do judgments about many specific property attributes and about the relative contribution of these attributes to a property's overall level of risk. However, overall risk gaps are not well explained by many factors commonly found to relate to risk perceptions. Understanding the nature of these risk perception gaps can facilitate improved communication by wildfire professionals about how risks can be mitigated on private lands. These results also speak to the general nature of individual-level risk perception.

Mello, S. and R. C. Hornik (2016). "Media Coverage of Pediatric Environmental Health Risks and its Effects on Mothers' Protective Behaviors." Risk Analysis 36(3): 605-622.	This study explores the relationship between exposure to U.S. media coverage of chemical threats to pediatric environmental health and mothers' behaviors to protect their children. Prior content analytic work revealed that media coverage volume from September 2012 to February 2013 differed significantly by type of chemical (i.e., pesticides = high coverage volume; bisphenol A [BPA] = moderate; and arsenic = low). Survey data collected from new and expecting mothers in March 2013 (n = 822) revealed mothers incidentally encounteredor scannedthis information in the media in the prior six months, and after adjusting for a series of potential confounders, such scanning was positively associated with mothers' self-reported behaviors to reduce chemical exposures. To test the hypothesis that coverage volume moderates the relationship between scanning and behavior, content analysis and survey data were combined in mixed effects regression analyses. Results showed significant differences between the effects of media scanning at different levels of coverage volume, but in a direction not entirely consistent with the study's hypothesis. The relationship between scanning and behavior was strongest for BPA, suggesting that a characteristic of media coverage other than volume may drive maternal responses to environmental health threats. Implications of these findings for risk communication research and practice are discussed.

Mellor, F. (1997). "Einstein, history and other passions: The romantic rebellion against science at the end of the twentieth century - Holton,G." Public Understanding of Science 6(2): 214-215.
	
Mellor, F. (1999). "Intellectual imposteurs." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 51-56.
	
Mellor, F. (1999). "The truth of science: Physical theories and reality." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 51-56.
	
Mellor, F. (2001). "Gender and the communication of physics through multimedia." Public Understanding of Science 10(3): 275-295.	This paper presents the results of the evaluation of a public understanding of a science project that presented the physics of "time travel" to 16-18 year olds through a CD-based interactive game. The results reveal interesting, and counterintuitive, gender differences. After an overview of the more typical gender biases found in physics and technology, the paper presents possible reasons for the gender differences found in this study. In particular, the effects of prior expectations are considered, as is the role of narrative and characterization and the adoption of the science-fictional device of time travel. The dichotomizing by boys (but not by girls) of the factual and the educational on the one hand and the speculative and leisure on the other, emerges as a key feature in the players' reactions to this game. The paper finishes by discussing how these issues may be of relevance more generally in attempts to communicate science through multimedia.

Mellor, F. (2009). "The Politics of Accuracy in Judging Global Warming Films." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(2): 134-150.	In 2007, two documentaries about global warming-An Inconvenient Truth and The Great Global Warming Swindle-became subject to legal and regulatory challenges in the UK. This paper examines the limitations of appeals to accuracy in these two cases. Rather than terminating debate, the discourse of accuracy engenders a representational regress which serves only to generate further controversy. Accuracy claims become particularly problematic in the case of documentary film where the role of the visual image must be accounted for. In particular, the ambiguous figural status of the image in science documentaries makes accuracy an inadequate means by which to judge such films. I suggest that rather than being considered in isolation, accuracy needs to be understood as one of several textual features which together construct the truthfulness of a text. The integrity of the text emerges as the most meaningful concept for evaluating media representations of climate change.

Mellor, F. (2010). "Negotiating uncertainty: asteroids, risk and the media." Public Understanding of Science 19(1): 16-33.	Natural scientists often appear in the news media as key actors in the management of risk. This paper examines the way in which a small group of astronomers and planetary scientists have constructed asteroids as risky objects and have attempted to control the media representation of the issue. It shows how scientists negotiate the uncertainties inherent in claims about distant objects and future events by drawing on quantitative risk assessments even when these are inapplicable or misleading. Although the asteroid scientists worry that media coverage undermines their authority, journalists typically accept the scientists' framing of the issue. The asteroid impact threat reveals the implicit assumptions which can shape natural scientists' public discourse and the tensions which arise when scientists' quantitative uncertainty claims are re-presented in the news media.

Mellor, F. (2013). "Twenty years of teaching science communication: A case study of Imperial College's Master's programme." Public Understanding of Science 22(8): 916-926.	In September 2012, graduates of Imperial College's science communication Master's courses gathered to celebrate 21 years of the programme. The MSc in Science Communication was the first of its kind in the UK and one of the first Master's courses in the world to offer a combination of practical and theoretical studies of science communication across a range of media. This commentary reflects on the longevity of the programme, the reasons for its success, and the opportunities and challenges facing science communication courses today.

Mellor, F. (2018). "The Oxford Handbook of The Science of Science Communication." Public Understanding of Science 27(6): 750-752.
	
Mendel, J. and H. Riesch (2017). "Gadflies Biting Science Communication: Engagement, Tricksters, and Ambivalence Online." Science Communication 39(5): 673-684.	Large-scale online science communication and engagement projects can assume an overly ordered and sterile type of online public space or civil society. Against this, the article offers a vision of more carnivalesque spaces for online science communication and engagement. Participants in these spaces taking the role of tricksters disrupting the status quo might offer new opportunities for engagement, play, and politics online: the online public sphere for discussing science is broken, and we should look for ways to break it better. Acknowledging the limitations of a trickster-like approach, we also consider the ambivalence inherent in carnivalesque play as engagement practice.

Mendes, J. M. D. (2009). "Social vulnerability indexes as planning tools: beyond the preparedness paradigm." Journal of Risk Research 12(1): 43-58.	This article draws from the experience of the ongoing drafting of the Regional Plan of the Centre Region of Portugal, and the empirical application of the Social Vulnerability Index proposed by Susan Cutter. It consists in the construction of an index of social vulnerability to natural and technological hazards and to social risks for all the municipalities of the region. Methodologically, it extends the vulnerability analysis to technological hazards and social risks, as a more encompassing view is necessary for the elaboration of prevention and civil protection policies. The results confirm the interactive nature of social vulnerability, and they also reflect the diffuse urbanisation and industrialisation patterns that characterise Portugal. The scattered nature of social facilities and security and health infrastructures pose specific challenges to planners concerning risk prevention and mitigation, and the elaboration of effective risk communication strategies adapted to specific hazards and risks in the studied municipalities. The article concludes with some reflections on the need to revise established paradigms of disaster analysis and emphasise the importance of pre-event planning and the social cartography of vulnerable populations for effective prevention and security policies that take into account social inequalities and citizenship rights.

Mercer, D. (2018). "Why Popper can't resolve the debate over global warming: Problems with the uses of philosophy of science in the media and public framing of the science of global warming." Public Understanding of Science 27(2): 139-152.	A notable feature in the public framing of debates involving the science of Anthropogenic Global Warming are appeals to uncritical positivist' images of the ideal scientific method. Versions of Sir Karl Popper's philosophy of falsification appear most frequently, featuring in many Web sites and broader media. This use of pop philosophy of science forms part of strategies used by critics, mainly from conservative political backgrounds, to manufacture doubt, by setting unrealistic standards for sound science, in the veracity of science of Anthropogenic Global Warming. It will be shown, nevertheless, that prominent supporters of Anthropogenic Global Warming science also often use similar references to Popper to support their claims. It will also be suggested that this pattern reflects longer traditions of the use of Popperian philosophy of science in controversial settings, particularly in the United States, where appeals to the authority of science to legitimize policy have been most common. It will be concluded that studies of the science of Anthropogenic Global Warming debate would benefit from taking greater interest in questions raised by un-reflexive and politically expedient public understanding(s) of the philosophy of science of both critics and supporters of the science of Anthropogenic Global Warming.

Merkelsen, H. (2011). "Risk communication and citizen engagement: what to expect from dialogue." Journal of Risk Research 14(5): 631-645.	Despite the last few decades' devotion to deliberative methods in risk communication, many studies point to how important challenges arise when citizens are engaged in public dialogue. Since the era of enlightenment public dialogue has occupied a position as a normative ideal for political governance. But ideals are social constructions that have a tendency to direct attention away from underlying conflicts. The concept of dialogue is no exception, and exemplified by the Danish solution to dealing with public scepticism in relation to technological controversies, the internationally acclaimed 'consensus conference', the paper seeks to offer a better understanding of the contemporary use of the concept of dialogue as well as its ancient roots. The paper argues that behind the aspirations for deliberation lie two opposing models of dialogue. When these two models encounter in deliberative processes, their different presumptions about the role of communication symmetry are likely to appear. This points to how the models hold very different expectations as to the dialogical outcome, thus imposing some fundamental conflicts regarding the political efficacy of citizen engagement as a strategy for bridging the gap between expert and lay attitudes to societal risks.

Merkley, E. and D. A. Stecula (2018). "Party Elites or Manufactured Doubt? The Informational Context of Climate Change Polarization." Science Communication 40(2): 258-274.	Americans polarized on climate change despite decreasing uncertainty in climate science. Explanations focused on organized climate skeptics and ideologically driven motivated reasoning are likely insufficient. Instead, Americans may have formed their attitudes by using party elite cues. We analyze the content of over 8,000 print, broadcast, and cable news stories. We find that coverage became increasingly partisan as climate change rose in salience, but climate skeptics received scant attention. Democratic messages were more voluminous and consistently pro-climate science, while Republican messages have been scarcer and ambiguous until recently. This suggests Republican voters took cues from Democratic elites to reject climate science.

Merson, M. (2017). "Four Principles to Guide Interactions: Assisting Communities Confronting Environmental Contamination." Science Communication 39(1): 125-136.	Statistics for Action project partners developed resources to bridge the divide between environmental professionals and residents affected by environmental contamination. Miscommunication is frustrating and frequent. Four principles that guided one STEM educator are illustrated with examples from work with residents of Hattiesburg, Mississippi. These principles may be useful to others intending to increase understanding among community group members and environmental regulators or professionals. The principles are especially relevant when tensions due to racial differences, priorities for next steps, or power imbalances due to funding streams threaten to derail communication.

Mertz, C. K., et al. (1998). "Judgments of chemical risks: Comparisons among senior managers, toxicologists, and the public." Risk Analysis 18(4): 391-404.	Nineteen Senior Managers of a major chemical company in the United Kingdom participated in a survey to determine their attitudes, beliefs, and perceptions regarding risks from chemicals. Similar surveys had previously been conducted with toxicologists and members of the general public in the United States and Canada. In general, the Senior Managers tended to judge risks to be quite small for most chemicals. Moreover, they had lower risk perceptions than did members of the British Toxicological Society and even far lower perceptions of risk than a comparison group of members of the Canadian public. The managers held views that were similar to British toxicologists working in industry and government and dissimilar to the views of toxicologists working in academia. The observed differences between views of managers, toxicologists, and the public must be recognized and understood in order to facilitate communication and constructive efforts to manage chemical risks.

Messmore, A. B. (1996). "Measuring the impact of grassroots outreach." Science Communication 17(4): 430-442.	In 1993, the American Chemical Society (ACS) launched a volunteer-based public program called ''Kids & Chemistry,'' which was directed at improving children's understanding of science and their attitudes toward science and scientists. The project offered volunteer scientists a structured program and innovative demonstration materials and kits. This article describes the results of the ACS Public Outreach Office's research program to measure the impact of the Kids & Chemistry program on both the children and the volunteers.

Metag, J., et al. (2017). "Global warming's five Germanys: A typology of Germans' views on climate change and patterns of media use and information." Public Understanding of Science 26(4): 434-451.	People's attitudes toward climate change differ, and these differences may correspond to distinct patterns of media use and information seeking. However, studies extending analyses of attitude types and their specific media diets to countries beyond the United States are lacking. We use a secondary analysis of survey data from Germany to identify attitudes toward climate change among the German public and specify those segments of the population based on their media use and information seeking. Similar to the Global Warming's Six Americas study, we find distinct attitudes (Global Warming's Five Germanys) that differ in climate change-related perceptions as well as in media use and communicative behavior. These findings can help tailor communication campaigns regarding climate change to specific audiences.

Metag, J., et al. (2018). "Between Active Seekers and Non-Users: Segments of Science-related Media Usage in Switzerland and Germany." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(8): 1077-1094.	Citizens' attitudes toward science are related to their use of science-related information from various sources. Evidence is scarce regarding citizens' individual media repertoires for staying informed about science as segmentation studies so far have primarily focused on scientific attitudes. In this paper, we explore audience segments regarding their science-related information behavior and whether such segments are comparable or vary between two countries with similar information environments. Based on two surveys in Switzerland and Germany, we identify national audience segments that differ in their science-related information repertoires, and analyze their sociodemographic characteristics and science-related attitudes. In both countries, we find very comparable information user segments ranging from those who inform themselves frequently about science ("Active Seekers"/"Science Consumers") to those who hardly get in contact with any information about science and research ("Non-Users"). Those segments which get in contact with information about science frequently show generally more positive attitudes.

Metag, J. and M. S. Schafer (2018). "Audience Segments in Environmental and Science Communication: Recent Findings and Future Perspectives." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(8): 995-1004.
	
Metag, J., et al. (2016). "Perceptions of Climate Change Imagery: Evoked Salience and Self-Efficacy in Germany, Switzerland, and Austria." Science Communication 38(2): 197-227.	Prevalent in mass media worldwide, climate change imagery appears to be similar across countries. Replicating a study from the United States, United Kingdom, and Australia, we analyze whether these images are perceived in similar ways cross-nationally by studying Germany, Switzerland, and Austria. A total of 75 respondents sorted images with respect to their perceptions of salience and self-efficacy (Q method). They associated images of climate change impacts most strongly with salience, while they related imagery of renewable energies and mobility to self-efficacy. These findings suggest that perceptions of climate change visuals are largely consistent cross-culturally. They indicate that imagery that is frequently used in media is rarely associated with feelings of salience or self-efficacy.

MetivierCarreiro, K. A. and M. C. LaFollette (1997). "Commentary: Balancing cyberspace promise, privacy, and protection - Tracking the debate." Science Communication 19(1): 3-20.	Those who wish to become informed about cyberspace policy can quickly find themselves drowning in a deluge of papers, positions, and proposals. This commentary describes some of the linkages which make current cyberspace policy debate so complex and which indicate the need for dedicated efforts to sort out the situation for citizens as well as policymakers concerned about communications networking technologies and their use or content.

Metze, T. and J. Dodge (2016). "Dynamic Discourse Coalitions on hydro-fracking in Europe and the United States." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(3): 365-379.	Hydraulic fracturing for shale gas is a controversial issue in most countries. In these controversies, actors use discursive boundary work to convince various audiences of their position. Discursive boundary work is a communicative strategy that involves the framing of facts in contrast to other kinds of arguments. In this article we develop the Dynamic Discourse Coalition (DDC) approach to study how discourse coalitions deploy discursive boundary work to confirm, integrate, polarize or disintegrate their own and opposing discourse coalitions. The DDC approach enables a deeper understanding of the dynamics of controversies about hydraulic fracturing and similar contested technologies by illuminating the influence of communicative processes on policy formation. Based on an analysis of policy documents, academic reports, newspapers, interviews and websites we compare the dynamics of contesting discourse coalitions in the Netherlands and New York. This analysis explains why policy formed in different ways in the cases, despite the apparent similarity of the discourse coalitions that emerged in the respective controversies.

Meyer, G. (2016). "In science communication, why does the idea of a public deficit always return?" Public Understanding of Science 25(4): 433-446.	For centuries, science communication has been widely perceived, irrespective of context, as a didactic enterprise. That understanding does not accommodate a political category of science communication, featuring citizens on an equal footing - some of them scientists - who share responsibility for public affairs and represent different points of view and ways of reasoning. That may harm, at the same time and for the same reasons, democratic knowledge societies as political entities and science as a body of knowledge and rational methodology. Scientists are discursively excluded from the public. The public is perceived in terms of knowledge deficiency. The latter perception has survived decades of critique, accompanied by attempts, along an everyman-as-scientist logic, to include all citizens in the scientific endeavour. But why should all be scientists? With respect to practical-political issues - as distinct from technical-scientific ones - the acknowledgement of the citizenship of scientists seems more relevant. Only, this would challenge the widespread understanding of science as an all-purpose problem solver and the consequent ideas of politics.

Meyer, G. (2016). "Expectations and beliefs in science communication: Learning from three European gene therapy discussions of the early 1990s." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 317-331.	There is widespread agreement that the potential of gene therapy was oversold in the early 1990s. This study, however, comparing written material from the British, Danish and German gene therapy discourses of the period finds significant differences: Over-optimism was not equally strong everywhere; gene therapy was not universally hyped. Against that background, attention is directed towards another area of variation in the material: different basic assumptions about science and scientists. Exploring such culturally rooted assumptions and beliefs and their possible significance to science communication practices, it is argued that deep beliefs may constitute drivers of hype that are particularly difficult to deal with. To participants in science communication, the discouragement of hype, viewed as a practical-ethical challenge, can be seen as a learning exercise that includes critical attention to internalised beliefs.

Meyer, M. (2010). "The Rise of the Knowledge Broker." Science Communication 32(1): 118-127.	Knowledge brokers are people or organizations that move knowledge around and create connections between researchers and their various audiences. This commentary reviews some of the literature on knowledge brokering and lays out some thoughts on how to analyze and theorize this practice. Discussing the invisibility and interstitiality of knowledge brokers, the author argues that social scientists need to analyze more thoroughly their practices, the brokering devices they use, and the benefits and drawbacks of their double peripherality. The author also argues that knowledge brokers do not only move knowledge, but they also produce a new kind of knowledge: brokered knowledge.

Meyer, R., et al. (2013). "Dynamic Simulation as an Approach to Understanding Hurricane Risk Response: Insights from the Stormview Lab." Risk Analysis 33(8): 1532-1552.	This article investigates the use of dynamic laboratory simulations as a tool for studying decisions to prepare for hurricane threats. A prototype web-based simulation named Stormview is described that allows individuals to experience the approach of a hurricane in a computer-based environment. In Stormview participants can gather storm information through various media, hear the opinions of neighbors, and indicate intentions to take protective action. We illustrate how the ability to exert experimental control over the information viewed by participants can be used to provide insights into decision making that would be difficult to gain from field studies, such as how preparedness decisions are affected by the nature of news coverage of prior storms, how a storm's movement is depicted in graphics, and the content of word-of-mouth communications. Data from an initial application involving a sample of Florida residents reveal a number of unexpected findings about hurricane risk response. Participants who viewed forecast graphics, which contained track lines depicting the most likely path of the storm, for example, had higher levels of preparation than those who saw graphics that showed only uncertainty coneseven among those living far from the predicted center path. Similarly, the participants who were most likely to express worry about an approaching storm and fastest to undertake preparatory action were those who, ironically, had never experienced one. Finally, external validity is evidenced by a close rank-order correspondence between patterns of information use revealed in the lab and that found in previous cross-sectional field studies.

Miah, A. (2005). "Genetics, cyberspace and bioethics: why not a public engagement with ethics?" Public Understanding of Science 14(4): 409-421.	The representation of science, medicine, and technology has been an emerging agenda item for cultural and media research in the last decade. In part, its importance arises out of a concern for the public understanding of science (PUoS), which has been a priority in governmental policy discussions. This paper discusses how the utilization of cyberspatial communities can address the challenge of developing a global engagement with science and ethics, by considering the case of genetic technology and the role of experts in public debate. It critically appraises the PUoS and suggests that a way of advancing its methodological assumptions is through developing a "Public Engagement with Ethics." On this basis, concerns about scientific journalism are more effectively contextualized and enhance the possibility of ensuring that non-experts are aware of the importance of any scientific innovation.

Michael, M. (1998). "Between citizen and consumer: multiplying the meanings of the "public understanding of science"." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 313-327.	This paper explores how the "public understanding of science" might be reconceptualized in light of-the recent sociological treatments of consumption. I consider the implications that the rise of consumer culture and the increasing aesthetisization of everyday life have for micro- and macro-sociological studies in the public understanding of science. In particular, I examine how consumer culture impacts upon the status of the "lay local" and the nature of citizenship as they relate to the public understanding of science and scientific literacy. Further, I explore how the discourses and techniques of public understanding of science studies might contribute to the formulation of the lay person as consumer. Finally, in light of these points, I formulate a number of research questions that might enable the development of the "public understanding of science."

Michael, M. (2000). "Sorting things out: Classification and its consequences." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 339-341.
	
Michael, M. (2009). "Publics performing publics: of PiGs, PiPs and politics." Public Understanding of Science 18(5): 617-631.	This theoretical paper considers the ways in which the "publics" of public understanding of science and public engagement with science perform themselves not only in relation to science knowledge and scientific institutions, but also in relation to other publics. Specifically, through a survey of the literature, there is an exploration of the processes of differentiation and identification amongst publics. Two broad rhetorical categories of public are identified: Publics-in-General (PiGs) and Publics-in-Particular (PiPs). The means by which they are variously differentiated, and the performative uses to which these can be put are considered. Implications for both the implementation of public engagement processes, and the critique of such engagement, are discussed.

Michael, M. (2018). "Destroying iPhones: Feral science and the antithetical citizen." Public Understanding of Science 27(6): 731-744.	This exploratory article considers the implications of a particular genre - YouTube videos of iPhone destruction - for the Citizen Science and Public Understanding of Science/Public Engagement with Science and Technology. Situating this genre within a broader TV tradition of destructive testing' programmes, there is a description of the forms of destruction visited upon the iPhone, and an analysis of the features shared by the videos (e.g. mode of address, enactments of the experiment). Drawing on the notion of the idiotic', there is a discussion of the genre that aims to treat its evident lack of scientific and citizenly seriousness' productively. In the process of this discussion, the notions of feral science' and antithetical citizenship' are proposed, and some of their ramifications for Citizen Science and Public Understanding of Science/Public Engagement with Science and Technology presented.

Michael, M. and N. Brown (2004). "The meat of the matter: grasping and judging xenotransplantation." Public Understanding of Science 13(4): 379-397.	This paper is concerned with the ways in which lay people come to understand and assess xenotransplantation. Drawing on focus group data, we explore how people can both demonstrate a collective process of cost-benefit thinking and tacitly problematize this by deploying three meta-arguments that we call "trust," "telos," and "trump." Respectively, these meta-arguments emphasize: unexamined relations of trust; irrelevance because innovations such as xenotransplantation are inevitable; and redundancy in the face of desperation. We then consider how lay people draw upon certain analogies associated with meat in order to grasp the meaning of xenotransplantation. The data show how "meat" itself displays disparate and contested meanings. Depending on what aspects of meat are emphasized, xenotransplantation is represented in either a negative or a positive light. Some of the implications of the fluidity of the meaning of both meat and xenotransplantation for cost-benefit thinking in lay and expert discourse are discussed.

Michael, M., et al. (1997). "Teaching biotechnology: Identity in the context of ignorance and knowledgeability." Public Understanding of Science 6(1): 1-17.	This paper considers the sorts of identities constructed by biotechnology teachers for themselves, biotechnology and their students. Drawing upon insights from critical studies of the public understanding of science, we analyse teachers' views on biotechnology and the teaching of it. These views were partly derived from questionnaires and participant observation, though our main source of data were focus group discussions. Our analysis shows that the teachers held ambivalent views about their role and biotechnology. For example, on the one hand, science and biotechnology are 'impure' in the sense of being part of the messy world of politics and ethics. Within this controversial domain, the teachers saw their role as one of assuring 'balance' in which the students are exposed to both pro and con dimensions of biotechnology. On the other hand, science and biotechnology are 'pure', part of an idealized realm in which useful scientific knowledge is produced. Biotechnology thus was 'intellectually interesting in its own right'. We suggest that such ambivalence is not necessarily a problem, reflecting broader social trends.

Michael, M. and D. Lupton (2016). "Toward a manifesto for the "public understanding of big data'." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 104-116.	In this article, we sketch a manifesto' for the public understanding of big data'. On the one hand, this entails such public understanding of science and public engagement with science and technology-tinged questions as follows: How, when and where are people exposed to, or do they engage with, big data? Who are regarded as big data's trustworthy sources, or credible commentators and critics? What are the mechanisms by which big data systems are opened to public scrutiny? On the other hand, big data generate many challenges for public understanding of science and public engagement with science and technology: How do we address publics that are simultaneously the informant, the informed and the information of big data? What counts as understanding of, or engagement with, big data, when big data themselves are multiplying, fluid and recursive? As part of our manifesto, we propose a range of empirical, conceptual and methodological exhortations. We also provide Appendix 1 that outlines three novel methods for addressing some of the issues raised in the article.

Micic, T. (2016). "Risk reality vs risk perception." Journal of Risk Research 19(10): 1261-1274.	Here we explore new tools to improve risk communication within built infrastructure procurement by considering quantitative engineering risk and perceived risk associated with groups of stakeholders. In particular, the perceived risk is assumed to be dependent on motivational values that individuals identify with. The motivational values are evaluated using 40 questions Swartz Portrait Value Questionnaires. Ten hazards are considered in a survey to identify two dimensions, fear and unknown for a specific group of stakeholders. From the outcomes, it was identified that using a hybrid approach to establish the motivational values and risk perceptions for the stakeholder group risk communication could be improved. Furthermore, the outcomes could be used to target information to stakeholders or intervene to ensure that infrastructure performs according to expectation. As a result, it could become possible to revise what are currently inconsistent acceptable risk levels that have been embedded in regulatory documentation.

Mielby, H., et al. (2013). "The role of scientific knowledge in shaping public attitudes to GM technologies." Public Understanding of Science 22(2): 155-168.	Depending on the perceived balance of risk and benefit, and on the perceived unnaturalness, some applications of gene technology appear more acceptable to the public than others. This study asks whether a person's knowledge of biology affects their assessment of these factors differently. A random sample of the Danish population (n = 2000) was presented with questionnaires. The respondent's knowledge was measured by a number of textbook questions on biology. The results indicated that knowledge increases the likelihood that a person will have differentiated opinions on medical and agricultural applications, but decreases the likelihood that he or she will differentiate between cisgenic and transgenic cereals. We discuss the implication that knowledge makes people more likely to base their acceptance on judgements of risks and benefits, rather than on judgements of naturalness. The article concludes that the effect of knowledge on acceptance cannot be generalised wholesale from one application, or method, to others.

Miles, S. and L. J. Frewer (2003). "Public perception of scientific uncertainty in relation to food hazards." Journal of Risk Research 6(3): 267-283.	The research reported here aims to understand how people react to statements expressing risk uncertainty information in the context of a commonly experienced potential hazard, food related risks. Public perception of seriousness of risk for themselves, and for other people was examined for different types of uncertainty, for each of five different food hazards. The results indicated that participants responded to the different types of uncertainty in a uniform way, suggesting that perception of risk associated with uncertainty is not affected by the 'type' of uncertainty. The results further indicated that the seriousness of risk, in the presence of statements of uncertainty, was perceived to be greater for pesticides and genetic modification compared to BSE, high fat diets and Salmonella. It was argued that this could be due to the perceptions of low personal control, and high societal responsibility to protect people and societal control over exposure to the potential risks of pesticides and genetic modification. Under circumstances where people feel they have little personal control over their exposure to a particular hazard, and those social institutions that are perceived to be in control of protecting the public indicate that there is uncertainty associated with risk estimates, the hazard may appear to be 'out of control', which is associated with a perception of serious risk.

Mileti, D. S. and C. Fitzpatrick (1992). "The Causal Sequence of Risk Communication in the Parkfield Earthquake Prediction Experiment." Risk Analysis 12(3): 393-400.	A model of public perception and response to communication about natural hazards risk was constructed. It was estimated on data from samples of households in three communities at risk in the Parkfield earthquake prediction experiment. Estimated model parameters revealed consistent conclusions. Communicated risk information that was reinforced through additional communications and/or social cues precipitated an interactive personal search for more information; personal definitions of risk and what to do emerged; and these social constructions directed how the public responded. Perceived risk only indirectly impacted public action through information searching. This suggests that searching behavior should intervene between perception of risk and response in the theory of public risk communication.

Milfont, T. L. (2012). "The Interplay Between Knowledge, Perceived Efficacy, and Concern About Global Warming and Climate Change: A One-Year Longitudinal Study." Risk Analysis 32(6): 1003-1020.	If the long-term goal of limiting warming to less than 2 degrees C is to be achieved, rapid and sustained reductions of greenhouse gas emissions are required. These reductions will demand political leadership and widespread public support for action on global warming and climate change. Public knowledge, level of concern, and perceived personal efficacy, in positively affecting these issues are key variables in understanding public support for mitigation action. Previous research has documented some contradictory associations between knowledge, personal efficacy, and concern about global warming and climate change, but these cross-sectional findings limit inferences about temporal stability and direction of influence. This study examines the relationships between these three variables over a one-year period and three waves with national data from New Zealand. Results showed a positive association between the variables, and the pattern of findings was stable and consistent across the three data points. More importantly, results indicate that concern mediates the influence of knowledge on personal efficacy. Knowing more about global warming and climate change increases overall concern about the risks of these issues, and this increased concern leads to greater perceived efficacy and responsibility to help solving them. Implications for risk communication are discussed.

Miller, B. and J. Sinclair (2012). "Risk Perceptions in a Resource Community and Communication Implications: Emotion, Stigma, and Identity." Risk Analysis 32(3): 483-495.	Communication targeting resource communities, sites of potentially damaging industries such as forestry, mining, and logging, requires an understanding of risk perceptions among residents living within these communities. Among concerns facing these communities is social stigmatization, an actual or feared negative psychological experience associated with living in a community with an undesirable industry. This study of a coal-mining resource community was conducted with the purpose of exploring a range of perceptions associated with ongoing exposure to a resource industry, including the experience of social stigma. This study used focus group interviews with stakeholders to highlight the personal voices of the resource community experience. A model of stakeholders perceptions of industry risks and benefits is introduced, and important distinctions between hypothetical risk perceptions and perceptions of resource community stakeholders are explored. Implications for communicating with resource communities are also discussed.

Miller, B. M. and J. Lellis (2016). "Audience Response to Values-based Marketplace Advocacy by the Fossil Fuel Industries." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(2): 249-268.	A form of issue advocacy, marketplace advocacy campaigns often arise in response to burgeoning societal concerns, especially those faced by energy industries. Although these campaigns may include brief and selective references to corporate activities, most campaigns place a much stronger emphasis on commonly shared societal values. This study examines audience response to values-based environmental marketplace advocacy messages by the fossil fuel industries through a series of focus groups. Four instrumental values were identified in campaign videos (innovation, community, resilience, and patriotism), and the terminal value of pragmatism, especially as it relates to environmental issues, was identified as a result of identification with one or more of the instrumental values. The findings are discussed through the lens of extant research on marketplace advocacy and organizational values as well as Habermas's theory of refuedalization, shedding light on the ways corporations appeal to commonly held societal values in an effort to generate support for a given industry.

Miller, J. A. (2001). "Internet Bounty Symposium introduction." Science Communication 22(3): 243-245.
	
Miller, J. D. (1998). "The measurement of civic scientific literacy." Public Understanding of Science 7(3): 203-223.	Building on two decades of national surveys in the United States and two Eurobarometer studies, the history, rationale, and structure of a measure of civic scientific literacy are described. Estimates of the proportion of adults who are very well informed or moderately well informed on the index of civic scientific literacy appear in the literature more frequently, and this paper provides the first comprehensive description and analysis of the civic scientific literacy measure. It is hoped that this analysis and discussion will encourage the inclusion and replication of the measure in a wider range of studies of the public understanding of and attitudes toward science and technology.

Miller, J. D. (2001). "Who is using the Web for science and health information." Science Communication 22(3): 256-273.	This analysis (1) reviews the growth of public access to computers and the Web in recent years (2) identifies those individuals from a national sample of adults who have sought specific information from the Web. (3) identifies those individuals who have attempted to find science or health information from the Web, and (4) constructs two simple models to predict seeking scientific and health information from the Web. The analysis concludes that the growth of access to the Web is likely to continue and that slightly more than 20 percent of American adults sought health or science information from the Web in 1999. A pair of path models found that civic scientific literacy and formal education were the strongest predictors of seeking science information on the Web, and that biomedical and formal education were the strongest predictors of seeking health information on the Web.

Miller, J. D. (2004). "Public understanding of, and attitudes toward, scientific research: what we know and what we need to know." Public Understanding of Science 13(3): 273-294.	Over the last four decades, a substantial body of national survey material has been collected in the US concerning the public understanding of science and technology. Using this body of research, this analysis outlines the major trends from 1957 to 1999 and discusses their implications for public understanding of, and attitudes toward, scientific research. The analysis found that although the rate of civic scientific literacy in the US is only now approaching 20 percent, there is a strong and continuing public belief in the value of scientific research for economic prosperity and for the quality of life. Even though there are some continuing reservations about the pace of change engendered by science and technology and the relationship between science and faith, the public consistently reconciles these differing perceptions in favor of science.

Miller, J. D., et al. (2006). "Adult science learning from local television newscasts." Science Communication 28(2): 216-242.	American adults learn about science and health from numerous sources including television. The Pew studies demonstrate that half of American adults watch a local television news show three times a week or more, making local television news the most widely used news medium. This study examines the impact of a program to increase the use of science and health stories in local newscasts. The results show substantial story recall and information retention. The analysis suggests that science and health stories in local television newscasts may either enhance viewers' existing science/health schemas or foster the development of new schemas for less well-known constructs.

Miller, S. (1997). "Perfect symmetry - Baggott,J." Public Understanding of Science 6(2): 207-212.
	
Miller, S. (1997). "The most beautiful molecule - AldersleyWilliams,H." Public Understanding of Science 6(2): 207-212.
	
Miller, S. (2001). "Between understanding and trust: The public, science and technology." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 150-152.
	
Miller, S. (2001). "Public understanding of science at the crossroads." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 115-120.	With the publication of the House of Lords report "Science and Society" in the spring of 2000, public understanding of science in the United Kingdom is now at something of a crossroads. After well over a decade of efforts to improve what has come to be known as "scientific literacy" among the general population-led by such organizations as the Committee on Public Understanding of Science (CoPUS)-surveys suggest that little has been achieved. But how are we now to interpret this? Is it a failure by the scientific community to "get their message across?" Is the public just insufficiently interested in matters scientific? Or is it that the relationship between the public and scientists, and the dispersal and uptake of information, is more subtle than simple measurement models suppose? And how can the "new age," as envisioned by their Lordships, be realized?.

Miller, S. (2003). "Science communication's burnt bridges." Public Understanding of Science 12(1): 105-108.
	
Miller, S., et al. (2009). "Can Science Communication Workshops Train Scientists for Reflexive Public Engagement? The ESConet Experience." Science Communication 31(1): 116-126.	The European Science Communication Network, between 2005 and 2008, created and delivered original communication training workshops to more than 170 researchers, primarily early-career scientists, to empower them to perform reflexive public engagement activities in various communication situations. The program designed 12 original teaching modules for science communication that not only delivered skills training, including writing for popular audiences and media interview skills, but also developed capacity in, among other areas, risk communication, communicating science in dialogue, and examining controversies within the scientific community. The Workshops aimed to encourage scientists to reflect critically on the social, historical, cultural, and ethical dimensions of science.

Miller, S., et al. (2003). "ENSCOT: The European network of science communication teachers." Public Understanding of Science 12(2): 167-181.	ENSCOT is a network of science communication teachers working together to exchange ideas on good practice in teaching, to develop teaching modules, to develop training workshops, and to serve as a nucleus for other science communication teachers throughout Europe. This article describes ENSCOT's structure, activities, and plans.

Miller, T. (2016). "Greenwashed sports and environmental activism: Formula 1 and FIFA." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 719-733.	Formula 1 motor sport and the Men's World Cup of association football, two major sporting events on our calendars, are indirectly and directly responsible for environmental despoliation. They serve as advertisements for heavy industry, are designed for elite as much as mass consumption, and provide sponsors with dubious social licenses to operate. This occurs through the very mechanisms of the events themselves (engines in Formula 1, tourism in the World Cup) as well as their promotional externalities. I look at greenwashing claims made about these two sporting events and examine counter-discourses, then investigate economic and ecological citizenship. I suggest that a progressive agenda can be forwarded if Greenpeace, which runs campaigns related to these sports, works with its fellow elites, in the case of Formula 1, and with fans in the case of football. Doing so may be more effective than business-as-usual direct action.

Mills, B. (2012). "Lab Coats in Hollywood: Science, Scientists, and Cinema." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 774-775.
	
Millstone, E. and P. Van Zwanenberg (2007). "Mad cow disease - Painting policy-making into a corner." Journal of Risk Research 10(5): 661-691.	The BSE saga in the UK provides important lessons on the role of governments in risk communication and management during crises, and on the ways in which inappropriate early responses can skew the perceptions of stakeholders, exacerbate conflicts between different interest groups and constrain the government's options for effective action. A brief discussion of the emergence of BSE in the UK cattle herd, and the accompanying policy dilemmas, prefaces an account of how policy-makers responded to the crisis and communicated about possible risks, the effects on attitudes of stakeholders and the implications for policy. The paper shows that the UK government's risk communication tactics misrepresented the underlying science and failed to take a precautionary approach because scientific uncertainties were concealed and denied. The UK authorities claimed to be protecting public health but in practice they were more concerned to support agricultural markets and minimise state intervention and public expenditure. Regulations that were introduced were too little and too late, and were not properly enforced. Too little was invested in scientific research and the involvement of independent scientists was actively discouraged. The high degree of uncertainty in the prevailing state of knowledge was not acknowledged. Instead of adopting policies that were consistent with the available scientific evidence and understanding, the government merely promulgated the rhetoric of science-based policy, while discounting relevant scientific evidence and discrediting scientific advice that was inconsistent with its chosen narrative. It chose a narrative of total confidence and certainty, attached to an assumption of zero risk, and then struggled to adopt forms of reasoning that would sustain that position in the face of accumulating evidence to the contrary. Implications for risk communication of adopting a more precautionary approach in such circumstances are discussed.

Milstein, T. (2008). "When Whales "Speak for Themselves'': Communication as a Mediating force in Wildlife Tourism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(2): 173-192.	The case study for this ethnographic investigation is communication within the highest concentration of whale watch operations in the world, located in transnational waters of the North Pacific. The author explores this Western cultural setting in an effort to expand upon the culturally and environmentally inclusive conceptual framework of communication as a mediating force of human-nature relations. The author finds that a range of study participants view communication as human-nature transactional. The interpretations point to ways in which Westerners in a wildlife tourism setting may value silence as communicative of a co-expressive existence with nature, may be frustrated by the limitations of culturally particular tools of language for conveying knowledge of or experiences with nature, may credit nature with "speaking'' in ways that serve specific functions and may be used to justify tourism endeavors, and may position particular wildlife as icons that illuminate problematic human-nature relations or that isolate such wildlife from wider eco-cultural relationships.

Milstein, T. (2009). ""Somethin' Tells Me It's All Happening at the Zoo": Discourse, Power, and Conservationism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(1): 25-48.	This study examines how certain Western institutional discourses reproduce particular human relationships with nature. The analysis focuses upon the institutional setting of the zoo, examining long-standing multi-voiced debates about zoos and exploring the contemporary zoo's conservation discourses and cultural, lexical, and spatial elements of gaze and power. The author contextualizes zoo discourses within Western ideological environmental dialectics, including those of Mastery-Harmony, Othering-Connection, and Exploitation-Idealism. The author relates these discussions to her empirical observations of how certain discursive themes are reproduced and complicated within a leading American zoo. In the tradition of critical research that advocates for social change, the essay concludes with analysis-driven discussion about possibilities for zoos to transform their core configurations to more progressively work as agents for systemic cultural and environmental change.

Milstein, T. (2011). "Nature Identification: The Power of Pointing and Naming." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(1): 3-24.	Pointing and naming is a basic practice of using communication to discern nature. This study illustrates connections between this symbolic action and ecocultural relations. I focus on a transnational site of wildlife tourism to explore ways nature identification has historically mediated perceptual, behavioral, and political transformations. I also examine contemporary practice, illustrating ways identification uses and meanings delineate endangered whales as unique, complex, intrinsically valued subjects, as well as generate humanature connections and protections. In discussing restorative implications and limitations for endangered species, I suggest dialectically integrating an ecological lens with the powerful individualizing discourse of nature identification.

Milstein, T. (2016). "The Performer Metaphor: "Mother Nature Never Gives Us the Same Show Twice"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(2): 227-248.	This study ethnographically identifies and examines a common-sense performer metaphor entangled within deep-rooted Western ecocultural conceptions, in which humans are perceived as separate from and audience to a spectacular nature. I illustrate the cultural cohesiveness of the performer metaphor in a Western nature tourism setting to draw attention to the term's pervasiveness, its network of metaphoric entailments, and its generally unreflected upon meaning and reverberations. I examine struggles in using alternative metaphors and demonstrate ways the performer metaphor mediates processes of involvement with/in nature.

Milstein, T. and C. Krolokke (2012). "Transcorporeal Tourism: Whales, Fetuses, and the Rupturing and Reinscribing of Cultural Constraints." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(1): 82-100.	We focus on the expressive performative eruptions that often mark interactive and embodied humanature events, on the discourses that surround and entangle them, and on ways such extra-discursive communicative moments might point us to new understandings about the intersections of nature, culture, and the body. Using the frameworks of tourist as spectactor, notions of transcorporeality and intersubjectivity, and environmental communication concepts about material-symbolic mediation of humanature relations, we explore how whale tourism and elective ultrasounds at times appear to rupture Western human-nature binaries and notions of contained human bodies, yet also provide surveilled and disciplined moments in which particular cultural constraints are reinscribed. We envision ways such rapturous-rupturous experiences can help inform a transcorporeal environmental ethic centered on vulnerability and openness, arguing such moments must be paired with embodied, constitutive, and structural recontextualization to allow for ecocultural transformation.

Mitchell, J. V. (1992). "Perception of Risk and Credibility at Toxic Sites." Risk Analysis 12(1): 19-26.	This study integrates previous research methodologies to compare the risk perceptions and responses to risk messages of agency personnel and neighbors of Superfund sites in Michigan.  The integration attempted and the focus on risk messages are shaped by a critical review of the social amplification conceptual framework.  The study involved all four agency groups and three groups of site neighbors actively involved in Superfund planning across the state.  The first part of the study utilized the psychometric techniques of hazard rating and hazard profiles that had not previously been used in studies involving stakeholders.  While agency personnel responded similarly to experts in previous studies, the responses of individuals in the neighbor groups reflected experience with toxic sites and were dissimilar to previous ratings by the general public.  The second part of the study consisted of a hypothetical toxic site scenario that focused on specific risk messages at different times in the site history.  Results indicate that the difference in perception of risk occurs after the first testing at a site, and that dramatic differences arise between agency and resident groups regarding the credibility of information sources and the need for independent testing.  A general lack of trust in the Superfund program was demonstrated by all groups.  The results indicate that problems of institutional credibility and program adequacy cannot be addressed by better risk comunication.

Mitchell, R. E. (2006). "Green politics or environmental blues? Analyzing ecological democracy." Public Understanding of Science 15(4): 459-480.	Unlike several previous efforts that have discussed ecological forms of democracy in vague or esoteric terms, this article elucidates key factors that may affect the realization of ecological democracy. In the first section, ecological democracy is defined as an alternative democratic model that 1) strives to incorporate interested citizens into environmental decision-making, and 2) lacks structural features that systematically concentrate environmental amenities into the hands of particular social groups, while imposing environmental and ecological degradation on others. This leads to a discussion of several hindering and facilitating factors that either thwart or encourage ecological democracy. Two examples in support of this discussion on ecological democracy are provided: border contamination due to heavy industrial use along the US-Mexican border, and community forestry in the southeastern state of Oaxaca. By analyzing relevant factors that either have prevented or encouraged democratic environmental decision-making, this research will serve to improve environmental policy formulation and governance.

Mitman, G. (2001). "Science is fiction: The films of Jean Painleve." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 246-248.
	
Mitman, G. (2001). "Wildlife films." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 246-248.
	
Mitra, R. (2016). "Reconstituting "America": The Clean Energy Economy Ventriloquized." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(2): 269-288.	With the foregrounding of "clean energy" policies by climate change concerns, the rhetorical constitution of "America" as a collective subject, mobilized to adopt the clean energy economy (CEE), becomes crucial. Here, I analyze the constitutive rhetoric of Pew Charitable Trusts' landmark 2009 report on the CEE, drawing from the ventriloqual perspective to communication. I argue that this approach provides a more pragmatic, conversational understanding of the interpellative process constituting "America," noting it to be hybridized and composed of various human and nonhuman agents. Tracing the ingoing interaction among agents-some manifest in the text, others spectral-sheds light on the complex relations of power at stake, recognizes the open-ended possibilities (and restrictions) of agency, and the role of material structures shaping environmental communication and policy.

Mitsuishi, S., et al. (2001). "A new way to communicate science to the public: the creation of the Scientist Library." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 231-241.	Science in the twentieth century became divided into specialized branches and became closed off within the specialist community. To bring science back into Japanese society, we developed the Scientist Library as an attempt to transmit the personality and research of individual scientists. Our goal was to show the present state of science as a whole. The Scientist Library features 88 biologists, and has been accessible to the public on the World Wide Web and on CD-ROM since 1997. Our evaluation indicated that showing the "scientist as a person" is effective as a tool for communication of science. We also found that the Scientist Library allows scientists to express themselves.

Miyamoto, K., et al. (2015). "Residents' awareness and attitudes about an ongoing community-based genome cohort study in Nagahama, Japan." Public Understanding of Science 24(8): 957-969.	This study's objective was to examine residents' attitudes toward and factors associated with an ongoing, real genome cohort study based on a community in Japan. After the genome cohort study's launch in 2007, in November and December 2009, a self-administered questionnaire survey was conducted with 2500 randomly sampled residents aged 30-74years, living in Nagahama, Japan. Responses were received from 1363 people (response rate=54.5%), of whom 187 respondents had already participated in the study. Although the local government and researchers disseminated information through leaflets and citizen-information papers to every household, sent notices by personalized letter, and held symposia and other meetings, 65.7% of males and 47.2% of females first became aware of the study when they received our questionnaire. Among all respondents, 81.2% of those who knew that the genome cohort study had begun and 68.6% of those who did not know had a positive attitude toward the study. Their attitudes were significantly associated with high health consciousness and the desire for an extensive health check-up. Although for males there were no particular negative aspects of the genome study, for females, positive aspects were associated with participating in community activities and desiring an extensive health check-up. Although promoting a community-based genome cohort study requires huge effort, it is essential to popularize it. Actions are vital both for monitoring public awareness and attitudes at a community level and for keeping communication channels open.

Mogendorff, K., et al. (2012). ""Everyone May Think Whatever They Like, but Scientists ... ": Or How and to What End Plant Scientists Manage the Science-Society Relationship." Science Communication 34(6): 727-751.	In this study, the authors examine the performative functions of scientists' discursive constructions of the science-society relationship. They use discursive psychology to analyze interviews with Dutch plant scientists and show that interviewees contrast the freedom of people in the private sphere with scientists' responsibilities in the professional sphere to regulate "lay" access to science. To accomplish this, interviewees make claims about the scientific value of lay views only after they have displayed their tolerance of these views. Additionally, many interviewees refer to their own lay status in everyday life. Finally, the relationship between findings and recent science communication approaches is discussed.

Mogendorff, K., et al. (2016). "Turning Experts Into Self-Reflexive Speakers: The Problematization of Technical-Scientific Expertise Relative to Alternative Forms of Expertise." Science Communication 38(1): 26-50.	Bio-experts' portrayals of laypeople are considered problematic. Two discursive action method workshops with 17 participants were organized to discover whether plant experts can engage in reflexive problematization of their own talk about and in front of laypeople and whether plant experts' analyses may offer insights with regard to the hegemony of technical-scientific expertise. Participants discussed the interactional effects of real-life expert talk. Plant experts' discussions indicate that they can problematize how their talk-in-interaction helps reproduce the supremacy of technical-scientific expertise. Results also suggest that plant experts may offer complementary insights to social scientists' analyses of plant experts' talk.

Moghariya, D. P. and R. C. Smardon (2014). "Rural perspectives of climate change: A study from Saurastra and Kutch of Western India." Public Understanding of Science 23(6): 660-677.	This research reports on rural people's beliefs and understandings of climate change in the Saurastra/Kutch region of Western India. Results suggest that although most rural respondents have not heard about the scientific concept of climate change, they have detected changes in the climate. They appear to hold divergent understandings about climate change and have different priorities for causes and solutions. Many respondents appear to base their understandings of climate change upon a mix of ideas drawn from various sources and rely on different kinds of reasoning in relation to both causes of and solutions to climate change to those used by scientists. Environmental conditions were found to influence individuals' understanding of climate change, while demographic factors were not. The results suggest a need to learn more about people's conceptual models and understandings of climate change and a need to include local climate research in communication efforts.

Mokhtari, A., et al. (2006). "Consumer-phase Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis risk assessment for egg-containing food products." Risk Analysis 26(3): 753-768.	We describe a one-dimensional probabilistic model of the role of domestic food handling behaviors on salmonellosis risk associated with the consumption of eggs and egg-containing foods. Six categories of egg-containing foods were defined based on the amount of egg contained in the food, whether eggs are pooled, and the degree of cooking practiced by consumers. We used bootstrap simulation to quantify uncertainty in risk estimates due to sampling error, and sensitivity analysis to identify key sources of variability and uncertainty in the model. Because of typical model characteristics such as nonlinearity, interaction between inputs, thresholds, and saturation points, Sobol's method, a novel sensitivity analysis approach, was used to identify key sources of variability. Based on the mean probability of illness, examples of foods from the food categories ranked from most to least risk of illness were: (1) home-made salad dressings/ice cream; (2) fried eggs/boiled eggs; (3) omelettes; and (4) baked foods/breads. For food categories that may include uncooked eggs (e.g., home-made salad dressings/ice cream), consumer handling conditions such as storage time and temperature after food preparation were the key sources of variability. In contrast, for food categories associated with undercooked eggs (e.g., fried/soft-boiled eggs), the initial level of Salmonella contamination and the log(10) reduction due to cooking were the key sources of variability. Important sources of uncertainty varied with both the risk percentile and the food category under consideration. This work adds to previous risk assessments focused on egg production and storage practices, and provides a science-based approach to inform consumer risk communications regarding safe egg handling practices.

Molek-Kozakowska, K. (2017). "Stylistic analysis of headlines in science journalism: A case study of New Scientist." Public Understanding of Science 26(8): 894-907.	This article explores science journalism in the context of the media competition for readers' attention. It offers a qualitative stylistic perspective on how popular journalism colonizes science communication. It examines a sample of 400 headlines collected over the period of 15months from the ranking of five most-read' articles on the website of the international magazine New Scientist. Dominant lexical properties of the sample are first identified through frequency and keyness survey and then analysed qualitatively from the perspective of the stylistic projection of newsworthiness. The analysis illustrates various degrees of stylistic hybridity' in online popularization of scientific research. Stylistic patterns that celebrate, domesticate or personalize science coverage (characteristic of popular journalism) are intertwined with devices that foreground tentativeness, precision and informativeness (characteristic of science communication). The article reflects on the implications of including various proportions of academic and popular styles in science journalism.

Molinatti, G. and L. Simonneau (2015). "A Socioenvironmental Shale Gas Controversy: Scientists' Public Communications, Social Responsibility and Collective Versus Individual Positions." Science Communication 37(2): 190-216.	In this case study, we analyze the discourse, practices and representations of a group of scientists who issued public statements about the French shale gas controversy. The reasons they gave for engaging in this process of communication focused on their social responsibility, their collective ad hoc expertise and the neutrality of their position. We also investigated how these scientists actually produced their communications, despite the tensions between individual and collective positions. We discuss how this experience led them to reflect both individually and collectively on their representations of science in society.

Monani, S. (2011). "At the Intersections of Ecosee and Just Sustainability: New Directions for Communication Theory and Practice." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(2): 141-145.
	
Monani, S. (2016). "Voice and environmental communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 817-818.
	
Mondragon, N. I., et al. (2017). "Ebola in the Public Sphere: A Comparison Between Mass Media and Social Networks." Science Communication 39(1): 101-124.	This study examines how Ebola is transformed from purely scientific knowledge to public's thinking through media communication, using Spain as a case study. To do so, this research carried out a lexical analysis in both classic media communication and social network communication (Twitter). The results showed that traditional news used a reified discourse pattern prescribing the discourse of scientists and authorities. Tweets, in contrast, adhered to a consensual pattern of discourse, characterized by heterogeneity of representation and intensive symbolic ideas. The implications of this familiarization of knowledge about science via media communication and the effect of social networks on how we should face future epidemics are considered.

Monk, K. (2006). "Why some like it hot: Food, genes, and cultural diversity." Science Communication 27(4): 567-569.
	
Monteiro, M. and E. Keating (2009). "Managing Misunderstandings The Role of Language in Interdisciplinary Scientific Collaboration." Science Communication 31(1): 6-28.	This article explores how scientists communicate with each other in interdisciplinary collaborative work. It is based on ethnographic research conducted with one such group, which is building a predictive computer model of heat transfer in prostate tissues. The analysis identifies strategies scientists use in their communication practices, including managing different understandings of the validity of knowledge, partial understandings among participants, and interpretive discipline crossing in group meetings. The ideas of productive misunderstandings and of registration as correlating distinct knowledge domains are used to interpret how scientists must manage their unshared backgrounds as part of the collaborative scientific work.

Montpetit, E. and A. Harvey (2018). "Media Storms and Policy Expertise: How Environmental Beat Journalists Gained Influence During a Shale Gas Controversy." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(7): 895-910.	This article examines the conditions under which environmental beat journalists can gain credibility as expert informants. It shows that media storms foster a particular dynamic that can add to this credibility. Comparing a media storm over shale gas development in Quebec with regular coverage of the same issue in British Columbia, this article shows that the coverage space given to environmental beat journalists during a media storm can render their alliance with protest groups mutually beneficial. Beat journalists can benefit from the willingness of these groups to participate in their stories, while the groups benefit from increased visibility. Beat journalists also benefit by being perceived as expert informants in policy networks, a role that they use to encourage policy-makers to take the concerns of protest groups seriously. This dynamic also increases the negativity of the news coverage. The article makes a contribution to knowledge on the role of environmental journalists in policy-making processes.

Moore, A. (2010). "Public bioethics and public engagement: the politics of "proper talk"." Public Understanding of Science 19(2): 197-211.	This article uses notions of "public talk" and "regulation as facilitation" to develop an account of public bioethics in the UK as a form of scientific governance drawing on document analysis and expert interviews. First this article will show the "ethical" problematization of scientific governance in the UK through the emergence of the Human Genetics Commission (HGC), Nuffield Council on Bioethics (NCB), and Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA). Second, it will argue that an "ethical" model has emerged alongside and partially displaced a "technical" model of expertise in scientific governance. The article will introduce the notion of "proper talk," a set of techniques for facilitating ethical debate, characterized by the active elicitation of public engagement and the inclusion of emotions and subjectivity. The article then questions whether the authority to categorize publics and identify "proper" ethical positions reintroduces problems of expertise in a new form.

Moore, E. E. (2016). "Green Screen or Smokescreen? Hollywood's Messages about Nature and the Environment." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(5): 539-555.	This paper examines ideologies about nature and the environment in popular, animated Hollywood filmsincluding The Lorax, Wall-E, and Ice Age 2through a symptomatic reading). The primary goal of the analysis is to elucidate key omissions in these texts through an assessment of the problematicdefined in this research as an a-priori answer to perceived audience concerns regarding the role of consumerism and corporate culture in environmental problems. Silences in the films revolve around: how environmental problems are defined; what the consequences are; who the responsible parties are; and what potential solutions exist to mitigate them. The significance of the research is underscored by the formation of an increasingly intimate relationship between children, consumer culture, and commercial media in the USA, as well as the increasingly dire information emerging about global environmental issues. This analysis reveals the dual, often conflicting, messages that commercial film provides for its young audiences about pivotal environmental problems and their potential resolution.

Moore, M. P. (2009). "The Union of Concerned Scientists on the Uncertainty of Climate Change: A Study of Synecdochic Form." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(2): 191-205.	This essay examines the function of synecdochic form in the rhetoric of the Union of Concerned Scientists that first exposes the construction of uncertainty about the reality of global climate change sustained by the Bush Administration, and then builds an opposing view based on a scientific consensus of certainty instead. Previous research on synecdoche in environmental communication has focused on the ways in which it fosters conflict among competing groups through representations of irreconcilable world views that can become ironic to outside observers. However, this essay argues that synecdoche in the discourse over climate change can serve as the master of tropes to overcome irony by stressing interconnectedness as a key to understanding the construction of uncertainty and promoting alternatives to it.

Moreno, C., et al. (2010). "The Context(s) of Precaution: Ideological and Instrumental Appeals to the Precautionary Principle." Science Communication 32(1): 76-92.	This article contributes to the clarification of the concept of precaution and its function in social debate. The authors compare the uses of precaution in science and technology-related conflicts (as indicated by an analysis of media reports on precaution) with data from a survey on precaution and the role of science in decision making. While the survey data confirm the existence of opposing "idealized" or "ideological" conceptualizations of the role of science in regulatory decisions, the analyzed media reports show an added degree of complexity on the level of social dynamics. The media analysis identifies an instrumental use of the concept of precaution in social debate, which is independent of "ideological" positions on precaution, and serves as a way of empowerment for social actors critical of scientific-technological proposals, allowing them to counterbalance information asymmetries.

Morgan, K. M., et al. (2001). "A deliberative method for ranking risks (II): Evaluation of validity and agreement among risk managers." Risk Analysis 21(5): 923-937.	A deliberative method for ranking risks was evaluated in a study involving 218 risk managers. Both holistic and multiattribute procedures were used to assess individual and group rankings of health and safety risks facing students at a fictitious middle school. Consistency between the rankings that emerged from these two procedures was reasonably high for individuals and for groups, suggesting that these procedures capture an underlying construct of riskiness. Participants reported high levels of satisfaction with their groups' decision-making processes and the resulting rankings, and these reports were corroborated by regression analyses. Risk rankings were similar across individuals and groups, even though individuals and groups did not always agree on the relative importance of risk attributes. Lower consistency between the risk rankings from the holistic and multiattribute procedures and lower agreement among individuals and groups regarding these rankings were observed for a set of high-variance risks. Nonetheless, the generally high levels of consistency, satisfaction, and agreement suggest: that this deliberative method is capable of producing risk rankings that can serve as informative inputs to public risk-management decision making.

Morgan, M. and K. Chompreeda (2015). "The Relative Effect of Message-Based Appeals to Promote Water Conservation at a Tourist Resort in the Gulf of Thailand." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(1): 20-36.	The lodging industry uses large amounts of water each day for overnight guests. Although some hotels rely on direct mechanisms to control water usage, patrons are asked frequently to participate in linen-towel reuse programs, thus reducing demand. This cost-cutting measure is a shrewd business practice because it conserves resources and reduces operational expenses simultaneously. Hotels often advertise this "green" form of corporate social responsibility to increase market share. A field study was designed to evaluate the effectiveness of message-based appeals at an island resort in Thailand. Social norms were shown to be effective in promoting towel reuse behavior. Over two-thirds of the tourists hung up their towels after viewing a water conservation message placed in their rooms (descriptive, 59.3%; descriptive + injunctive, 65.5%; injunctive, 84.5%; and economic, 61.3%), while 25.5% were compliant without being prompted. Since reactions to the appeals differed significantly, water conservation strategies should focus on market-based segments.

Morgan, M. G. and L. Lave (1990). "Ethical Considerations in Risk Communication Practice and Research." Risk Analysis 10(3): 355-358.
	
Morgenstern, J., et al. (2015). "Simple genetics language as source of miscommunication between genetics researchers and potential research participants in informed consent documents." Public Understanding of Science 24(6): 751-766.	Informed consent is based on communication, requiring language to convey meanings and ensure understandings. The purpose of this study was to investigate the use of language in informed consent documents used in the genetics research funded by Canadian Institutes of Health Research and Genome Canada. Consent documents were requested from the principal investigators in a recent round of funding. A qualitative content analysis was performed, supported by NVivo7. Potential barriers to informed consent were identified, including language that was vague and variable, words with both technical and common meanings, novel phrases without clear meaning, a lack of definitions, and common concepts that assume new definitions in genetics research. However, we noted that difficulties in comprehension were often obscured because the words used were generally simple and familiar. We conclude that language gaps between researcher and potential research participants may unintentionally impair comprehension and ultimately impair informed consent in genomics research.

Morioka, T., et al. (2007). "New risk management training programs in higher education in Japan - A comparative study and a challenge by Osaka university." Journal of Risk Research 10(6): 821-839.	Risks such as health risks derived from hazardous chemicals, energy security associated with electric power supply, and accidental risks at work need to be coped with by professionals in the areas concerned. Risk managers must deal with numerous different topics. They are expected to be familiar with legal requirements, scientific analysis methods, management strategies, and communication skills. Many firms in the USA and Europe already employ certified professional risk managers, including those for environmental risks. In contrast, even though both private and public sectors in Japan have acknowledged the need for risk management professionals, the lack in specialized programs at Japanese institutions has resulted in relatively poor staffing of environmental risk managers at most organizations. In order to meet this increasing demand, a new post-graduate program (representative: T. Morioka) at Osaka University was created as the first comprehensive attempt to train environmental risk managers in Japan. This article analyzes the educational systems for risk management at the graduate and post- graduate level in Japan, and compares the structure of the new post- graduate program at Osaka University with similar domestic programs. We also make an analysis of the skills development and learning outcomes criterion of our program.

Morss, R. E., et al. (2015). "Flash Flood Risks and Warning Decisions: A Mental Models Study of Forecasters, Public Officials, and Media Broadcasters in Boulder, Colorado." Risk Analysis 35(11): 2009-2028.	Timely warning communication and decision making are critical for reducing harm from flash flooding. To help understand and improve extreme weather risk communication and management, this study uses a mental models research approach to investigate the flash flood warning system and its risk decision context. Data were collected in the Boulder, Colorado area from mental models interviews with forecasters, public officials, and media broadcasters, who each make important interacting decisions in the warning system, and from a group modeling session with forecasters. Analysis of the data informed development of a decision-focused model of the flash flood warning system that integrates the professionals' perspectives. Comparative analysis of individual and group data with this model characterizes how these professionals conceptualize flash flood risks and associated uncertainty; create and disseminate flash flood warning information; and perceive how warning information is ( and should be) used in their own and others' decisions. The analysis indicates that warning system functioning would benefit from professionals developing a clearer, shared understanding of flash flood risks and the warning system, across their areas of expertise and job roles. Given the challenges in risk communication and decision making for complex, rapidly evolving hazards such as flash floods, another priority is development of improved warning content to help members of the public protect themselves when needed. Also important is professional communication with members of the public about allocation of responsibilities for managing flash flood risks, as well as improved system-wide management of uncertainty in decisions.

Morton, J., et al. (2002). "Improving communication with UK agricultural and related scientific expertise - UKNGO perspectives." Science Communication 23(4): 442-462.	There has been an assumption that agricultural research carried out by developed country research institutions would be ultimately transferred to developing countries through national research and extension organizations. In recent years, this paradigm has been increasingly challenged by the increased prominence of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in agricultural development. In this context, the authors investigated U.K. NGOs' access to and perceptions of U.K. expertise in agricultural and environmental science. The article examines the problems most often encountered by NGOs in agricultural development, current sources of advice, links with U.K. science institutions, and their short-term and long-term suggestions for improving NGO-research collaboration.

Morua, A. R., et al. (2011). "Waterborne Disease-Related Risk Perceptions in the Sonora River Basin, Mexico." Risk Analysis 31(5): 866-878.	Waterborne disease is estimated to cause about 10% of all diseases worldwide. However, related risk perceptions are not well understood, particularly in the developing world where waterborne disease is an enormous problem. We focus on understanding risk perceptions related to these issues in a region within northern Mexico. Our findings show how waterborne disease problems and solutions are understood in eight small communities along a highly contaminated river system. We found major differences in risk perceptions between health professionals, government officials, and lay citizens. Health professionals believed that a high level of human-waste-related risk existed within the region. Few officials and lay citizens shared this belief. In addition, few officials and lay citizens were aware of poor wastewater-management-related disease outbreaks and water contamination. Finally, aside from health professionals, a few interviewees understood the importance of basic hygiene and water treatment measures that could help to prevent disease. Our results add to the literature on environmentally-related risk perceptions in the developing world. We discuss recommendations for improving future human-wastewater-related risk communication within the region.

Moscovici, S. (2014). "The new magical thinking." Public Understanding of Science 23(7): 759-779.
	
Moser, C., et al. (2012). "The influence of linear and cyclical temporal representations on risk perception of nuclear waste: an experimental study." Journal of Risk Research 15(5): 459-476.	Time is an important aspect of the issue of nuclear waste, both from a technical and from a perceptional perspective. Previous studies have investigated the relationship between time and risk perception of nuclear waste, applying the discounting paradigm and therefore limiting time to one very narrow aspect: its duration. However, time is a multifaceted concept and encompasses more than a linear property. The aim of our study is to test the influence of a different aspect of time, namely temporal representations (linear or cyclical) on risk perception of nuclear waste. In an experimental study we demonstrate that both linear and cyclical representations have a reducing effect on risk perception compared to the control condition, where no specific time representation was activated. Examining group differences, we also demonstrate that temporal representations have a differing influence depending on whether participants have a stable belief about nuclear waste or whether they belong to an ambivalent group that does not yet hold a stable belief. Furthermore, we replicate the well-documented gender gap in risk perception. Our results bear potentially interesting implications for risk communication by demonstrating a causal relationship between the graphic representation of time and risk perception of nuclear waste.

Moser, C., et al. (2012). "The Crucial Role of Nomothetic and Idiographic Conceptions of Time: Interdisciplinary Collaboration in Nuclear Waste Management." Risk Analysis 32(1): 138-154.	The disposal of nuclear waste involves extensive time scales. Technical experts consider up to 1 million years for the disposal of spent fuel and high-level waste in their safety assessment. Yet nuclear waste is not only a technical but also a so-called sociotechnical problem and, therefore, requires interdisciplinary collaboration between technical, natural, social sciences, and the humanities in its management. Given that these disciplines differ in their language, epistemics, and interests, such collaboration might be problematic. Based on evidence from cognitive psychology, we suggest that, in particular, a concept like time is presumably critical and can be understood differently. This study explores how different scientific disciplines understand extensive time scales in general and then focuses on nuclear waste. Eighteen qualitative exploratory interviews were conducted with experts for time-related phenomena of different disciplines, among them experts working in nuclear waste management. Analyses revealed two distinct conceptions of time corresponding to idiographic and nomothetic research approaches: scientists from the humanities and social sciences tend to have a more open, undetermined conception of time, whereas natural scientists tend to focus on a more determined conception that includes some undetermined aspects. Our analyses lead to reflections on potential difficulties for interdisciplinary teams in nuclear waste management. We focus on the understanding of the safety assessment, on potential implications for communication between experts from different disciplines (e.g., between experts from the humanities and engineering for risk assessment and risk communication), and we reflect on the roles of different disciplines in nuclear waste management.

Moser, S., et al. (2011). "How People Perceive and Will Cope with Risks from the Diffusion of Ubiquitous Information and Communication Technologies." Risk Analysis 31(5): 832-846.	Information and communication technologies (ICTs) are increasingly pervasive and continue to reshape our environment. This trend carries different risks. Therefore, the early sensitization of people to these risks, as well as improving their capacity for protective coping behavior, is essential. Based on the protection motivation theory (PMT), we examined with structural equation modeling the relationships between different components of threat and coping appraisal to explain protective and nonprotective responses. Calculations were performed with data from a representative survey on perception and use of ICT among German residents (N = 5,030). Our findings largely supported the proposed model: an increased perceived threat was positively related to the intentions to react protectively and nonprotectively. Perceived coping efficacy increased the protective and decreased the nonprotective responses. Negative affect enhanced the perceived threat and the nonprotective response, but inhibited protective intentions. The implications of these findings on how to sensitize people to the risks of these new technologies are outlined.

Motion, J., et al. (2015). "Popularizing dissent: A civil society perspective." Public Understanding of Science 24(4): 496-510.	This article theorizes civil society groups' attempts to popularize opposition to genetic modification in New Zealand as deliberative interventions that seek to open up public participation in science-society governance. In this case, the popularization strategies were designed to intensify concerns about social justice and democratic incursions, mobilize dissent and offer meaningful mechanisms for navigating and participating in public protest. Such civic popularization efforts, we argue, are more likely to succeed when popularity and politicization strategies are judiciously integrated to escalate controversy, re-negotiate power relations and provoke agency and action.

Mou, Y. and C. A. Lin (2014). "Communicating Food Safety via the Social Media: The Role of Knowledge and Emotions on Risk Perception and Prevention." Science Communication 36(5): 593-616.	This study examined the Chinese public's use of Weibo (a microblog platform) and their cognitive, affective, and behavioral responses to a series of food safety crises. Based on a sample of 1,360 adult Weibo users across China, the study found that Weibo use contributed to cognitive and behavioral responses to food safety concerns, but access to other online and off-line news and information outlets was largely irrelevant. Emotional response toward the food safety incidents was a stronger predictor of both food safety risk perception and prevention action, relative to food safety incident awareness and factual awareness. Theoretical and social implications of study findings are discussed.

Mountcastle-Shah, E., et al. (2003). "Assessing mass media reporting of disease-related genetic discoveries - Development of an instrument and initial findings." Science Communication 24(4): 458-478.	Objective: To develop an instrument to assess the content and balance of media stories about genetic discoveries relevant to human diseases and assess its ability to detect variability.
Methods: Consumer focus groups to help develop the instrument, and surveys of scientists and journalists to evaluate the items. Ratings by at least two readers assessed reliability. Variability was measured by comparing scores of 47 stories emanating from two discoveries.
Results: Reader agreement on content items was good (kappa = 0.74). Consumers, scientists, and journalists were in substantial agreement about what content items should be included. Some items deemed essential by journalists appeared in very few stories. One-third of stories exaggerated the benefits of the discovery and one-third presented a balanced selection of expert opinion. Coverage of specific items varied from 11.5 percent to 84.6 percent.
Conclusions: The instrument is reliable; contains items deemed important by consumers, scientists, and journalists; and detects variability.

Moyer, R. M. and G. Song (2016). "Understanding Local Policy Elites' Perceptions on the Benefits and Risks Associated with High-Voltage Power Line Installations in the State of Arkansas." Risk Analysis 36(10): 1983-1999.	Recently, a controversial policy debate has arisen concerning the installation of high-voltage power lines in northwest Arkansas. While proponents argue that such an installation is inevitable to efficiently and reliably support the identified electric load in the region, opponents claim that the lines will degrade the natural environment and hamper the tourism-based local economy in affected regions, notably in Ozark Mountain areas. Of particular interest is to understand how local policy elites perceive the benefits and risks associated with such divisive proposals, which is critical for comprehending the formation and changes of related government policies. Based upon the dual process theory of judgment, this study systematically investigates the triadic relationships between (a) more profound personal value predispositions, (b) affects and feelings, and (c) perceived benefits and risks related to the proposed installation of high-voltage power lines among local policy elites in the state of Arkansas. In doing so, we analyze original data collected from a statewide Internet survey of 420 local leaders and key policymakers about their opinions on the related issues, while considering other factors claimed by previous literature to influence risk perceptions, including trust, knowledge level, and demographic characteristics. Analytical results suggest that grid-group cultural predispositions, as deeply held core values within local policy elites' individual belief systems, both directly and indirectlythrough affective feelingsshape perceived utility associated with the installation of high-voltage power lines. We conclude this article by suggesting some practical considerations for better designing policy addressing controversial issues of this nature.

Mozumder, P., et al. (2009). "Provision of a Wildfire Risk Map: Informing Residents in the Wildland Urban Interface." Risk Analysis 29(11): 1588-1600.	Wildfires in the wildland urban interface (WUI) are an increasing concern throughout the western United States and elsewhere. WUI communities continue to grow and thus increase the wildfire risk to human lives and property. Information such as a wildfire risk map can inform WUI residents of potential risks and may help to efficiently sort mitigation efforts. This study uses the survey-based contingent valuation (CV) method to examine annual household willingness to pay (WTP) for the provision of a wildfire risk map. Data were collected through a mail survey of the East Mountain WUI area in the State of New Mexico (USA). The integrated empirical approach includes a system of equations that involves joint estimation of WTP values, along with measures of a respondent's risk perception and risk mitigation behavior. The median estimated WTP is around U.S. $12 for the annual wildfire risk map, which covers at least the costs of producing and distributing available risk information. Further, providing a wildfire risk map can help address policy goals emphasizing information gathering and sharing among stakeholders to mitigate the effects of wildfires.

Mudry, J. (2010). "Counting on Dinner: Discourses of Science and the Refiguration of Food in USDA Nutrition Guides." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(3): 338-354.	My goal in this paper is to demonstrate how discourses of science, in particular a discourse of quantification, change food, and what we know about it. Herein, I use United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) food and nutrition guides as sites for the development of an enumerated discourse of food. Since the USDA published its first food guide in 1917 it encouraged the eater to understand food in scientific and numeric terms. As the twentieth century progressed, the USDA continued to figure food using reductive, quantitative language until the food guide pyramid codified the syntax into a visual symbol. I argue that an enumerated discourse fundamentally changes our understanding of food by categorizing food according to scientific principles and properties instead of by season, taste, or cultural experience.

Mueller, J. and M. G. Stewart (2016). "The curse of the Black Swan." Journal of Risk Research 19(10): 1319-1330.	When unexpected and emotion-engaging events become Black Swans and carry an extreme impact,' this derives not so much those qualities or from their intrinsic size or importance as from reaction, or overreaction, they generate; but one that is often as extreme and unpredictable as the event itself. Most consequential development in human history, however, stems not from such events, but from changes in thinking and behavior that are gradual and often little-noticed as they occur. In addition, when an unexpected, emotion-grabbing event becomes a Black Swan, the response is likely to become internalized, and getting people to re-evaluate through sensible risk analysis and risk communication is extremely difficult. As part of this, events that are aberrations are often unwisely taken instead to be harbingers - and continue to be so even in the face of repeated disconfirming evidence. An examination of the 9/11 response in the US illustrates these points.

Mulder, H. A. J. and M. J. Goedhart (2009). "Investigating science communication in the Information Age: Implications for public engagement and popular media, vol 1." Science Communication 31(1): 127-129.
	
Mulder, H. A. J., et al. (2009). "Practising science communication in the Information Age: Theorising professional practices, vol 2." Science Communication 31(1): 127-129.
	
Mulder, H. A. J., et al. (2008). "The State of Science Communication Programs at Universities Around the World." Science Communication 30(2): 277-287.	Building on discussions at two workshops held at the recent 10th International Conference on the Public Communication of Science and Technology during June 2008 in Malmo, Sweden, this article proposes specific steps toward achieving a common understanding of the essential elements for academic programs in science communication. About 40 academics, science communication professionals, and students from at least 16 countries participated in this process.

Mullet, E., et al. (2005). "The Scandinavian way of perceiving societal risks." Journal of Risk Research 8(1): 19-30.	Risk perception in Finland was studied in order to investigate the possible existence of a specific, Scandinavian risk perception group. The sample consisted of 120 Finnish students aged 20-35. The results previously observed in Norway and Sweden were replicated. Not only Norwegians, Swedes, and Finns; but also Americans, Brazilians, Burkinabe, French, Hong Konguese, Italians, Macanese, and Portuguese; tended to express the same concerns (strong linear correlations between ratings), though not to the same extent (important differences in mean ratings). This result strengthens the hypothesis that risk communication by the media in the three Scandinavian countries shapes public risk perception in a different way than in other countries. Alternative theories are also examined.

Mumford, J. and D. Gray (2007). "Making a drama out of a crisis a dramaturgical perspective on the new technology controversy." Journal of Risk Research 10(8): 1065-1083.	The introduction of new technology often leads to strong public concerns about potential hazards. There are situations where unfounded concerns obstruct highly beneficial developments, but, equally, there are situations where unintended consequences of new technology are overlooked and individuals are harmed. Clearly there are advantages in improving the dialogue between those introducing the technology and those who could be affected by it. This article uses dramaturgical analysis to explore the interactions between actors in a real life case study, the introduction of a hydrogen refuelling facility in London. Dramaturgical analysis in the traditions of Burke and Goffman explores interactions from the perspective of impression management. The thesis is that the fronts that actors use must relate to the settings they find themselves in, and this matching of front with setting constrains what can credibly be communicated in any situation. This research provides insights into the differences between the front necessary for credibility within an organisation and the fronts necessary for credibility in communicating with the public. It demonstrates how communication can be blocked by the situations actors find themselves in and conflict can emerge as a substitute for effective communication.

Mumpower, J. L., et al. (2016). "Predictors of the perceived risk of climate change and preferred resource levels for climate change management programs." Journal of Risk Research 19(6): 798-809.	In a 2013 US national public opinion survey, data were collected from 1321 adult respondents for five psychometric variables - Dread, Scientists' Level of Understanding, Public's Level of Understanding, Number Affected, and Likelihood - for six threats (sea-level rise, increased flooding, and four others) associated with climate change. Respondents also rated perceived risk and indicated the resource level that they believed should be invested in management programs for each threat. Responses did not vary significantly across the six threats, so they were combined. The survey collected standard demographic information, as well as measuring climate change knowledge and environmental values (New Ecological Paradigm, NEP). Psychometric variables predicted perceived risk extremely well (R=.890, p<.001); all five psychometric variables were significant predictors. The results were generally consistent with previous research except that Scientists' Level of Understanding was a positive, rather than negative, predictor of perceived risk. Jointly the demographic variables, knowledge, and environmental values significantly predicted perceived risk (R=.504, p<.001). Consistent with previous research, significant positive predictors were age, Democratic Party Identification, and NEP score; significant negative predictors were male gender and White ethnicity. When demographic variables, knowledge, and environmental values were added to psychometric ones, only the psychometric variables were statistically significant predictors. Perceived risk strongly predicted resource level (r=.772, p<.001). Adding demographic, knowledge, and environmental value variables to perceived risk as predictors of resource level did not appreciably increase overall predictive ability (r=.790, p<.001), although White ethnicity emerged as a significant negative predictor and religiosity, Democratic Party Identification, Liberal Political Ideology, and NEP score were significant positive predictors. The results demonstrate that risk perceptions of climate change and policy preferences among climate change management options are highly predictable as a function of demographic, knowledge, environmental values, and psychometric variables. Among these, psychometric variables were found to be the strongest predictors.

Munoz, A., et al. (2012). "Who is willing to pay for science? On the relationship between public perception of science and the attitude to public funding of science." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 242-253.	This article examines the relationship between the general public's understanding of science and the attitude towards public funding of scientific research. It applies a multivariate and discriminant analysis (Wilks' Lambda), in addition to a more commonly used bivariate analysis (Cramer's V), to data compiled from the Third National Survey on the Social Perception of Science and Technology in Spain (FECYT, 2006). The general conclusion is that the multivariate analysis produces information complementary to the bivariate analysis, and that the variables commonly applied in public perception studies have limited predictive value with respect to the attitude towards public funding of scientific research.

Munshi, D., et al. (2016). "Redesigning the architecture of policy-making: Engaging with Mori on nanotechnology in New Zealand." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 287-302.	Although there is an extensive literature on public engagement on the use of new and emerging technologies such as nanotechnology, there is little evidence of the participation of marginalised indigenous communities in processes of such engagement. How do particular cultural values and worldviews shape the perceptions of new technologies among such indigenous peoples? This article addresses this question through an analysis of the deliberations of an indigenous Mori citizens' panel on nanotechnology in Aotearoa New Zealand. An active process of public engagement with the nation's Mori stakeholders, and their conversations with nanotechnology experts, sustainability activists and Mori researchers, helps map an alternative, culture-based architecture of public engagement on policies around new technologies. The analysis is grounded in a concept of active citizenship that we term sustainable citizenship'.

Murphy, P. and M. Maynard (2000). "Framing the genetic testing issue - Discourse and cultural clashes among policy communities." Science Communication 22(2): 133-153.	This study examined ways in which the congressional testimony of public policy factions used interpretive frames to lend advantage to their own views of genetic testing. The authors applied semantic network analysis to four sessions of congressional testimony. Using the cultural theory of risk, they divided testifiers into bureaucratic, entrepreneurial, and egalitarian cultures. The authors then cluster-analyzed testimony of each policy camp to expose word patterns that delineated each group's policy frame. Within a shared frame about privacy and fairness, the entrepreneurs emphasized rules for appropriate access; the egalitarians, personal concerns for family and self and the bureaucrats, safety through government programs.

Murphy, P. D. (2018). "Lessons from the Zombie Apocalypse in Global Popular Culture: An Environmental Discourse Approach to the Walking Dead." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(1): 44-57.	In the last few decades, the zombie apocalypse has become the subject of films, television programmes, video games and other entertainment fare all over the world. This has not only made the zombie an important allegorical figure in global popular culture, but tales of resource scarcity, ecological collapse and post-event life on Earth are now universally recognized by audiences all around the world. But as texts that present a world defined by conflict and competition, what are the environmental prescriptions and lessons presented in zombie popular communication? This essay engages these questions by examining the underlying environmental discourses in zombie media and the metaphors, tropes and narratives that are used to produce them. It concludes by offering an assessment of what environmental prescriptions and survival strategies are suggested by zombie film and television, as well a critical interpretation of what zombie popular culture tells us about our environmental fears, particularly those of the West.

Murriello, S. (2015). "The palaeontological exhibition: A venue for dialogue." Public Understanding of Science 24(1): 86-95.	Understanding the dialogue between museums and their visitors enables museums to subsist, undergo transformations and become consolidated as socially valued cultural venues. The Museo de La Plata (Argentina) was created in the late nineteenth century as a natural history museum, and this study shows that currently the museum is valued socially as a venue for family leisure and education, at which people make sense to the objects exhibited through characteristics conferred upon them by both the institution and the visitor. Nevertheless, such dialogue is somehow affected by the museographic proposal and the public interpretation of the institutional narrative, which could be analysed within the frame of contextual learning. As a consequence, the evolutionary idea that the museum aims to communicate is distorted by the public. This article highlights the importance of considering the visitors' interpretations when planning museum exhibitions, a perspective that has been rather absent in the Argentinian museums.

Muter, B. A., et al. (2013). "Social Contagion of Risk Perceptions in Environmental Management Networks." Risk Analysis 33(8): 1489-1499.	An important requisite for improving risk communication practice related to contentious environmental issues is having a better theoretical understanding of how risk perceptions function in real-world social systems. Our study applied Scherer and Cho's social network contagion theory of risk perception (SNCTRP) to cormorant management (a contentious environmental management issue) in the Great Lakes Basin to: (1) assess contagion effects on cormorant-related risk perceptions and individual factors believed to influence those perceptions and (2) explore the extent of social contagion in a full network (consisting of interactions between and among experts and laypeople) and three isolated models separating different types of interactions from the full network (i.e., expert-to-expert, layperson-to-layperson, and expert-to-layperson). We conducted interviews and administered questionnaires with experts (e.g., natural resource professionals) and laypeople (e.g., recreational and commercial anglers, business owners, bird enthusiasts) engaged in cormorant management in northern Lake Huron (n = 115). Our findings generally support the SNCTRP; however, the scope and scale of social contagion varied considerably based on the variables (e.g., individual risk perception factors), actors (i.e., experts or laypeople), and interactions of interest. Contagion effects were identified more frequently, and were stronger, in the models containing interactions between experts and laypeople than in those models containing only interactions among experts or laypeople.

Mwale, P. N. (2006). "Societal deliberation on genetically modified maize in southern Africa: the debateness and publicness of the Zambian national consultation on genetically modified maize food aid in 2002." Public Understanding of Science 15(1): 89-102.	In the 2001/2002 farming season, southern Africa faced acute hunger. According to UN WFP/FAO statistics, about 14 million people were on the verge of death by starvation in the region. In Zambia alone, the UN WFP/FAO estimated that about 3 million people were threatened with serious food shortages, and they would need about 630 000 metric tons of food. The UN WFP offered genetically modified (GM) maize grain, procured from the US, to various countries in the region, including Zambia. A significant debate emerged around the question of US-produced GM maize grain in the region. This regional debate around the question of GM maize was most probably aroused by the issues raised by the Zambian case. The form of this debate and the issues driving its dynamics, are interesting both in themselves and also because they reveal something about the form by which public biotechnological debate, or public controversy on biotechnology, takes in public domains. This paper is an experimental intellectual exercise, an attempt at a conceptual analysis of "public debate" as a derivative, but quintessential, concept within what is broadly conceived of as public understanding of science. Thus, this conceptual analysis is an attempt at a prolegomena for, i.e. a preparatory conceptual approach to, our understanding better what public debate on science is and how it works in practice.

Myers, G. (2007). "Commonplaces in risk talk: Face threats and forms of interaction." Journal of Risk Research 10(3): 285-305.	Talk about risk is problematic for interaction; it can involve the speaker or hearer saying things that threaten participants' 'face', the ways they want themselves to be seen by others. One way of dealing with these threats to face, and to keep the conversation going, is the use of commonplaces. Commonplaces, generally applicable and generally known arguments, play an important role in interaction, invoking shared, taken-for-granted perspectives embedded in familiar roles and everyday practices. They are similar to some of the frames discussed in risk communication, but they focus our attention on rhetoric and interaction rather than cognition. In this paper, I show how commonplaces are used in focus group discussions of public choices involving dangers to life or health. They tend to be used in response to dilemmas, when a speaker is put on the spot, and they tend to lead to other commonplaces. Analysis of commonplaces supports those who argue that studies of public perception of risks and programmes of communication about risks need to be sensitive to the personal interactions, rhetorical strategies, and cultural embeddedness of any risk talk.

Myers, T. A., et al. (2017). "Predictors of trust in the general science and climate science research of US federal agencies." Public Understanding of Science 26(7): 843-860.	In this article, we focus on a key strategic objective of scientific organizations: maintaining the trust of the public. Using data from a nationally representative survey of American adults (n = 1510), we assess the extent to which demographic factors and political ideology are associated with citizens' trust in general science and climate science research conducted by US federal agencies. Finally, we test whether priming individuals to first consider agencies' general science research influences trust in their climate science research, and vice versa. We found that federal agencies' general science research is more trusted than their climate science research-although a large minority of respondents did not have an opinion-and that political ideology has a strong influence on public trust in federal scientific research. We also found that priming participants to consider general scientific research does not increase trust in climate scientific research. Implications for theory and practice are discussed.

Myrick, J. G. and S. D. Evans (2014). "Do PSAs Take a Bite Out of Shark Week? The Effects of Juxtaposing Environmental Messages With Violent Images of Shark Attacks." Science Communication 36(5): 544-569.	A between-subjects experiment (N = 531) studied the juxtaposition of programming from the Discovery Channel's Shark Week with shark conservation public service announcements (PSAs). Cultivation and priming theories provided a conceptual framework for testing how shark-on-human violence paired with different types of PSAs (celebrity endorser present or not) influence audiences' emotional reactions, threat perceptions, willingness to support conservation, and intentions to seek information. Findings reveal that shark-on-human violence and presence of a PSA influence fear reactions and perceived threat of shark attacks. Findings related to conservation support, information seeking, and the role of previous Shark Week viewing and demographics are also discussed.

Nabi, R. L., et al. (2018). "Framing Climate Change: Exploring the Role of Emotion in Generating Advocacy Behavior." Science Communication 40(4): 442-468.	Substantial research examines the cognitive factors underlying proenviron-mental message effectiveness. In contrast, this study investigates the role of emotion, fear and hope specifically, in the gain/loss framing of environmental policy initiatives. The 2 (threat vs. no threat) x 2 (gain- vs. loss-framed efficacy) experiment revealed emotion, especially hope, as a key mediator between gain-framed messages and desired climate change policy attitudes and advocacy. Results further supported the value of sequencing emotional experiences to enhance persuasive effect. This research offers an inaugural test of emotional flow theorizing and highlights the need for additional research on emotional processes in environmental communication.

Nadkarni, N. M. and J. S. Morris (2018). "Baseline Attitudes and Impacts of Informal Science Education Lectures on Content Knowledge and Value of Science Among Incarcerated Populations." Science Communication 40(6): 718-748.	Many public audiences lack access to traditional science education. We examined baseline perceptions and the impacts of science lectures on incarcerated adults in two correctional institutions. Although incarcerated populations are often characterized as having poor educational backgrounds, being disinterested in learning, and having few tools to seek science education, our incarcerated audiences were interested in, capable of, and desirous of science education. We found positive baseline attitudes about science and a significant positive effect of science lectures on content knowledge, attitudes, and behavioral intentions related to science, suggesting that informal science lectures may be an appropriate portal to science education for this population.

Nakayachi, K. (1998). "How do people evaluate risk reduction when they are told zero risk is impossible?" Risk Analysis 18(3): 235-242.	Two studies examined how people evaluate risk reduction when they believe zero risk to be impossible. Measures collected were willingness to pay (WTP) for risk reduction, and degree of trust in the risk management agency. The findings from the combined studies are: (1) participants were more willing to pay a higher amount for the same reduction in risk in the "zero risk possible" than in the ''zero risk impossible'' condition; and (2) people's trust in the risk management agency did not differ between the "zero risk impossible" and "zero risk possible" conditions. These results suggest that it might be viable for agencies to accurately communicate the unattainability of zero risk without suffering a loss in public faith or trust, and thus that excessive expenditure for risk reduction might be prevented.

Nakayachi, K. (2013). "The Unintended Effects of Risk-Refuting Information on Anxiety." Risk Analysis 33(1): 80-91.	Researchers in the field of risk perception have been asking why people are more worried about risk today than in years past. This article explores one possible answer to this question, associative anxiety. The affect heuristic and the mental network models suggest that anxiety triggered by information regarding a particular risk can spread to other risks of the same category. Research to date, however, has not examined how information refuting the particular risk can also be generalized across other risks. The article presents two experimental studies addressing this issue. Study 1 showed that when participants were presented with information based on a real train collision, they experienced increased anxiety not only about train collisions but also about public transportation in general. In contrast, those who were informed about the train collision case as well as the preventative measures implemented after the accident experienced decreased anxiety about train collisions but not about public transportation more generally. Study 2 measured the changes in participant anxiety about a genetically modified organism (GMO) and compared the influence of information about either the existence or nonexistence of its risk. Similar to Study 1, associative anxiety rippled through the risk category. The results also suggest that the follow-up information refuting the GMO risk reduced the anxiety toward the hazard drastically, but did not fully alleviate the anxiety toward other hazards in the category. The implications and the limitations of these studies are also discussed.

Nakayachi, K., et al. (2018). "Effects of Acknowledging Uncertainty about Earthquake Risk Estimates on San Francisco Bay Area Residents' Beliefs, Attitudes, and Intentions." Risk Analysis 38(4): 666-679.	We test here the risk communication proposition that explicit expert acknowledgment of uncertainty in risk estimates can enhance trust and other reactions. We manipulated such a scientific uncertainty message, accompanied by probabilities (20%, 70%, implicit [will occur] 100%) and time periods (10 or 30 years) in major (magnitude 8) earthquake risk estimates to test potential effects on residents potentially affected by seismic activity on the San Andreas fault in the San Francisco Bay Area (n = 750). The uncertainty acknowledgment increased belief that these specific experts were more honest and open, and led to statistically (but not substantively) significant increases in trust in seismic experts generally only for the 20% probability (vs. certainty) and shorter versus longer time period. The acknowledgment did not change judged risk, preparedness intentions, or mitigation policy support. Probability effects independent of the explicit admission of expert uncertainty were also insignificant except for judged risk, which rose or fell slightly depending upon the measure of judged risk used. Overall, both qualitative expressions of uncertainty and quantitative probabilities had limited effects on public reaction. These results imply that both theoretical arguments for positive effects, and practitioners' potential concerns for negative effects, of uncertainty expression may have been overblown. There may be good reasons to still acknowledge experts' uncertainties, but those merit separate justification and their own empirical tests.

Narita, D. (2012). "Managing uncertainties: The making of the IPCC's Special Report on Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage." Public Understanding of Science 21(1): 84-100.	Carbon dioxide capture and storage (CCS) is a technology that receives growing recognition because of its extremely great in mitigating climate change. However, uncertainties concerning the viability of this approach exist. With this background, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) published a report in 2005 assessing of CCS. This article discusses the compilation process of the report, based on information collected through interviews with key participants and document research, highlighting how CCS's key uncertainties were estimated in the face of two disparate needs: scientific rigor and policy relevance.

Nash, J. (2016). "Toponymy, drawing, and representing place: a comment on James Cantrill's "On Seeing "Places'"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(5): 671-676.	Cantrill's [(2015). On seeing places for what they are, and not what we want them to be. Environmental Communication. doi:10.1080/17524032.2015.1048268] commentary on representing place, actors and informants summarises a large body of place research relevant to environmental communication. This comment offers an addendum to Cantrill's description of representational validity - the degree to which investigative conclusions accord with the perceptions held by the respondents who originally generate data on which the analyses are based. It reconsiders the tools available to scholars researching place to assess how several of Cantrill's methodological and theoretical suggestions may have already been realised in various linguistic and ethnographic approaches developed in the field of linguistic ecology.

Nauroth, P., et al. (2017). "The effects of social identity threat and social identity affirmation on laypersons' perception of scientists." Public Understanding of Science 26(7): 754-770.	Public debates about socio-scientific issues (e.g. climate change or violent video games) are often accompanied by attacks on the reputation of the involved scientists. Drawing on the social identity approach, we report a minimal group experiment investigating the conditions under which scientists are perceived as non-prototypical, non-reputable, and incompetent. Results show that in-group affirming and threatening scientific findings (compared to a control condition) both alter laypersons' evaluations of the study: in-group affirming findings lead to more positive and in-group threatening findings to more negative evaluations. However, only in-group threatening findings alter laypersons' perceptions of the scientists who published the study: scientists were perceived as less prototypical, less reputable, and less competent when their research results imply a threat to participants' social identity compared to a non-threat condition. Our findings add to the literature on science reception research and have implications for understanding the public engagement with science.

Nauta, M. J., et al. (2008). "Food safety in the domestic environment: The effect of consumer risk information on human disease risks." Risk Analysis 28(1): 179-192.	The improvement of food safety in the domestic environment requires a transdisciplinary approach, involving interaction between both the social and natural sciences. This approach is applied in a study on risks associated with Campylobacter on broiler meat. First, some web-based information interventions were designed and tested on participant motivation and intentions to cook more safely. Based on these self-reported measures, the intervention supported by the emotion "disgust" was selected as the most promising information intervention. Its effect on microbial cross-contamination was tested by recruiting a set of participants who prepared a salad with chicken breast fillet carrying a known amount of tracer bacteria. The amount of tracer that could be recovered from the salad revealed the transfer and survival of Campylobacter and was used as a measure of hygiene. This was introduced into an existing risk model on Campylobacter in the Netherlands to assess the effect of the information intervention both at the level of exposure and the level of human disease risk. We showed that the information intervention supported by the emotion "disgust" alone had no measurable effect on the health risk. However, when a behavioral cue was embedded within the instruction for the salad preparation, the risk decreased sharply. It is shown that a transdisciplinary approach, involving research on risk perception, microbiology, and risk assessment, is successful in evaluating the efficacy of an information intervention in terms of human health risks. The approach offers a novel tool for science-based risk management in the area of food safety.

Naylor, S. and B. Keogh (1999). "Science on the Underground: an initial evaluation." Public Understanding of Science 8(2): 105-122.	This paper describes an initial evaluation of the "Science on the Underground" project in London, United Kingdom. The project uses posters based on concept cartoons to raise interest and awareness, provoke follow-up action and raise understanding of science amongst passengers. The nature of the concept cartoons is described. A number of data collection methods were used in the evaluation, including interview, observation, analysis of media coverage, and analysis of web site comments. The conclusions are that the project has led to an encouraging level of awareness of and interest in the project and a limited degree of follow-up action. Insufficient data are available to draw conclusions about the impact on public understanding of science.

Nelkin, D. (2000). "Playing dolly: Technocultural formations, fantasies, and fictions of assisted reproduction." Public Understanding of Science 9(2): 191-192.
	
Nelms, C., et al. (2017). "Who is the Adolescent Environmentalist? Environmental Attitudes, Identity, Media Usage and Communication Orientation." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(4): 537-553.	There has been an increase in scholarly attention to adolescents' environmental attitudes; however, only a small number of empirical studies address the Adolescent Environmentalist's (AE) personal and collective identity, media usage, and communication orientation. In this study, we investigate differences in young people (aged 12-17) who identify themselves as environmentalists, or the AEs, and those who do not drawing from a national sample of 1096 youth. Results show AEs significantly differ from their peers. The AEs have a different environmental value set, report greater self-confidence and influence among peers, support the stronger display of citizenship behaviors, follow certain news topics more, use and discuss the news more with a variety of others, and report engaging in more dialogue and persuasion.

Nelson, D. W. (2001). "How we believe: The search for god in an age of science." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 148-149.
	
Nelson, G. D. (2001). "Assessing science understanding: A human constructivist view." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 245-246.
	
Nelson, N. (2008). "Living with the Genome: Ethical and Social Aspects of Human Genetics." Public Understanding of Science 17(4): 505-507.
	
Neresini, F. (2000). "And man descended from the sheep: the public debate on cloning in the Italian press." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 359-382.	Investigating the development in the Italian press of the public debate an cloning after the announcement of the Dolly's birth allows one to trace and analyze the growing acceptance of mammal cloning as a scientific fact, at least at the media level. This analysis is focused mainly on the increasingly expanding network of issues interlinked with cloning within the "public space" created by the media and on the interaction among the Various social actors who, motivated by the most divergent yet incredibly convergent interests, support these issues. Our analysis allows us to show not only the actors' different positions about cloning, but even how they contribute to establishing mammal cloning as it scientific fact. For this analysis, the perspective adopted refers mainly to the actor-network theory (ANT). The nearly 100 articles published in the two most widely read Italian newspapers over the period in which cloning remained front-page news in 1997 have been analyzed to assess the extent of their coverage and then subjected to a content analysis to determine their coverage of the network of issues and social actors involved in the debate.

Neresini, F. and M. Bucchi (2011). "Which indicators for the new public engagement activities? An exploratory study of European research institutions." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 64-79.	Public engagement (PE) activities have become a regular feature for several research institutions in Europe. However, while research and teaching functions can count on established indicators, PE functions are often performed as a sort of "goodwill exercise." Few studies have focused on defining appropriate indicators and standards, particularly at the organizational level. An exploratory study was carried out on a sample of 40 European research institutions with a view to understanding whether the diffusion of PE activities has led to incorporating the PE perspective into "routine" activities of organizations. The results point to quite unequal performances among European research institutions. Also, while most research institutions examined have dedicated resources for PE activities, the study suggests that such activities are not yet considered essential. Performance indicators and standards might prove of great support for institutions and policy actors that wish to take seriously the challenge of public engagement and societal dialogue.

Neresini, F., et al. (2009). "Exploring a Black Box Cross-National Study of Visit Effects on Visitors to Large Physics Research Centers in Europe." Science Communication 30(4): 506-533.	Results from a cross-national quantitative study of 3,301 visitors to four large physics research centers in Europe focus on short-term learning and motivational effects. The authors collected data from these visitors before and after visiting the centers as part of a research project funded by the European Union. Overall, visitors' knowledge of the research centers increased. However, effects on learning of scientific concepts are not so clear. The visits mostly seem to reaffirm visitors' prior attitudes and images related to the centers. The findings imply that these visits offer some learning potential and, for school students, increased motivation to enter a scientific profession, but in terms of altering visitors' images they seem rather ineffective. Nevertheless, because of their uniqueness in allowing different publics an authentic glimpse of the production of scientific knowledge, visits to research centers remain an important public communication activity.

Neresini, F. and A. Lorenzet (2016). "Can media monitoring be a proxy for public opinion about technoscientific controversies? The case of the Italian public debate on nuclear power." Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 171-185.	Is it possible to infer information about public opinion by looking at how the media discuss controversial technoscientific public issues? We conduct content analysis on media coverage of nuclear power in Italy in the years 1992-2012 and compare it with longitudinal public opinion surveys. By treating a large amount of textual data and applying an innovative methodology based on indicators of the presence of risky terms', that is, keywords referring to the issue of risk and danger, very high correlation has been found between media discourse on risk and opposition within public opinion. The analysis is conducted testing as a preliminary step Mazur's hypothesis on quantity of coverage and opposition towards controversial technoscience. Then, risk content measures are used in order to gain stronger correlations between media and public attitudes towards nuclear power.

Nerlich, B. (2009). ""The post-antibiotic apocalypse" and the "war on superbugs": catastrophe discourse in microbiology, its rhetorical form and political function." Public Understanding of Science 18(5): 574-588.	Discourses evoking an antibiotic apocalypse and a war on superbugs are emerging just at a time when so-called "catastrophe discourses" are undergoing critical and reflexive scrutiny in the context of global warming and climate change. This article combines insights from social science research into climate change discourses with applied metaphor research based on recent advances in cognitive linguistics, especially with relation to "discourse metaphors." It traces the emergence of a new apocalyptic discourse in microbiology and health care, examines its rhetorical and political function and discusses its advantages and disadvantages. It contains a reply by the author of the central discourse metaphor, "the post-antibiotic apocalypse," examined in the article.

Nerlich, B., et al. (2012). "Climate in the News: How Differences in Media Discourse Between the US and UK Reflect National Priorities." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(1): 44-63.	Studies dealing with media coverage of climate change have increased steadily over the last decade or so, alongside the media coverage of climate change itself. This article aims to contribute to this growing literature on two levels: to deepen understanding of distinctive patterns of language use across nations speaking a common language and to demonstrate the usefulness of a new approach for finding such patterns. Articles in The (London) Times and the New York Times, published between 2000 and 2009, were analyzed using methods related to computational linguistics. Results show that the US seemingly still constructs climate change as a problem, whereas the UK focuses on finding solutions for the (established) problem of climate change. This linguistic and conceptual gap may hamper mutual understanding and the crafting of global climate change mitigation policies.

Nerlich, B. and N. Koteyko (2009). "Carbon Reduction Activism in the UK: Lexical Creativity and Lexical Framing in the Context of Climate Change." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(2): 206-223.	This article examines discourses associated with a new environmental movement, "Carbon Rationing Action Groups'' (CRAGs). This case study is intended to contribute to a wider investigation of the emergence of a new type of language used to debate climate change mitigation. Advice on how to reduce one's "carbon footprint,'' for example, is provided almost daily. Much of this advice is framed by the use of metaphors and "carbon compounds''-lexical combinations of at least two roots-such as "carbon finance'' or "low carbon diet.'' The study uses a combination of tools from frame analysis and lexical pragmatics within the general framework of ecolinguistics to compare and contrast language use on the CRAGs' website with press coverage reporting on them. The analysis shows how the use of such lexical carbon compounds enables and facilitates different types of metaphorical frames such as dieting, finance and tax paying, war time rationing, and religious imperatives in the two corpora.

Nerlich, B. and N. Koteyko (2010). "Carbon Gold Rush and Carbon Cowboys: A New Chapter in Green Mythology?" Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(1): 37-53.	Individual and collective efforts to mitigate climate change in the form of carbon offsetting and emissions trading schemes have recently become the focus of much media attention. In this paper we explore a subset of the UK national press coverage centered on such schemes. The articles, selected from general as well as specialized business and finance newspapers, make use of gold rush, Wild West, and cowboy imagery which is rooted in deeply entrenched myths and metaphors and allows readers to make sense of very complex environmental, political, ethical, and financial issues associated with carbon mitigation. They make what appears complicated and unfamiliar, namely carbon trading and offsetting, seem less complex and more familiar. A critical discussion of this type of imagery is necessary in order to uncover and question tacit assumptions and connotations which are built into it and which might otherwise go unnoticed and unchallenged in environmental communication.

Neuwirth, K., et al. (2000). "Protection motivation and risk communication." Risk Analysis 20(5): 721-734.	The purpose of this study was to explore the utility of protection motivation theory (PMT) in the context of mass media reports about a hazard. Content elements of a hazard's severity, likelihood of occurring, and the effectiveness of preventive actions were systematically varied in a news story about a fabricated risk: exposure to fluorescent lighting lowering academic performance. Results of this experiment (N = 206) suggest that providing information about the severity of a hazard's consequences produces greater information seeking. In addition, information about levels of risk, severity, and efficacy combined jointly to produce greater rates of willingness to take actions designed to avoid the hazard. Results are seen as providing general support for PMT and are discussed within the broader framework of information seeking and heuristic and systematic information processing.

Newell, R. and A. Dale (2015). "Meeting the Climate Change Challenge (MC3): The Role of the Internet in Climate Change Research Dissemination and Knowledge Mobilization." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(2): 208-227.	This paper explores the role that Internet and online technologies played in research dissemination and knowledge mobilization in a recent climate change research project, MC3. In addition, the team looked at the potential of online expert-practitioner research collaborations for these purposes. Electronic communication was seen as a key element for creating distributed networks essential to the project and for building new practitioner/research knowledge collaboratives. The paper discusses how online communication strategies and technologies were used for wide dissemination of its research outcomes. MC3's research dissemination and knowledge mobilization strategies are analyzed, using engagement as the primary measure, to gain insights on the effectiveness and challenges of using Internet-based tools for communicating climate change innovations and actions.

Newell, S. and J. Swan (1995). "Professional-Associations as Important Mediators of the Innovation Process." Science Communication 16(4): 371-387.	Innovation depends on new ideas entering an organization and being translated into something implemented and used. This article identifies the determinants of this knowledge acquisition and transfer. Knowledge is diffused through a variety of networks. One potentially important network is formed by professional associations, which diffuse a specific body of knowledge to practitioners and create informal networks of weak ties, linking members from different organizations. A survey of a particular association's members is used to identify the variables that predict the level of two types of technological innovation. Results show that professional association networks are important for innovation in specific, operational technologies, although infernal communication factors and organization size are also significant predictors For more complex technologies that have implications for the overall philosophy of operations, different predictors-the existence of a technology strategy, the level of external communication, and the level of influence of individuals-are relevant.

Newman, E. J. and N. Schwarz (2018). "Good Sound, Good Research: How Audio Quality Influences Perceptions of the Research and Researcher." Science Communication 40(2): 246-257.	Increasingly, scientific communications are recorded and made available online. While researchers carefully draft the words they use, the quality of the recording is at the mercy of technical staff. Does it make a difference? We presented identical conference talks (Experiment 1) and radio interviews from NPR's Science Friday (Experiment 2) in high or low audio quality and asked people to evaluate the researcher and the research they presented. Despite identical content, people evaluated the research and researcher less favorably when the audio quality was low, suggesting that audio quality can influence impressions of science.

Newman, T. P. (2017). "Tracking the release of IPCC AR5 on Twitter: Users, comments, and sources following the release of the Working Group I Summary for Policymakers." Public Understanding of Science 26(7): 815-825.	Using the immediate release of the Working Group I Summary for Policymakers of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report as a case study, this article seeks to describe what type of actors were most active during the summary release, the substance of the most propagated tweets during the summary release, and the media sources that attracted the most attention during the summary release. The results from the study suggest that non-elite actors, such as individual bloggers and concerned citizens, accounted for the majority of the most propagated tweets in the sample. This study also finds that the majority of the most propagated tweets in the sample focused on public understanding of the report. Finally, while mainstream media sources were the most frequently discussed media sources, a number of new media and science news and information sources compete for audience attention.

Newman, T. P., et al. (2018). "Climate change, cultural cognition, and media effects: Worldviews drive news selectivity, biased processing, and polarized attitudes." Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 985-1002.	According to cultural cognition theory, individuals hold opinions about politically contested issues like climate change that are consistent with their "cultural way of life," conforming their opinions to how they think society should be organized and to what they perceive are the attitudes of their cultural peers. Yet despite dozens of cultural cognition studies, none have directly examined the role of the news media in facilitating these differential interpretations. To address this gap, drawing on a national survey of US adults administered in 2015, we statistically modeled the cultural cognition process in relation to news choices and media effects on public attitudes about climate change. Individuals possessing strongly held cultural worldviews, our findings show, not only choose news outlets where they expect to find culturally congruent arguments about climate change, but they also selectively process the arguments they encounter. Overall, our study demonstrates the substantial role that cultural cognition in combination with news media choices play in contributing to opinion polarization on climate change and other politicized science topics.

Nguyen, T. N., et al. (2010). "An Empirical Model of Perceived Mortality Risks for Selected US Arsenic Hot Spots." Risk Analysis 30(10): 1550-1562.	Researchers have long recognized that subjective perceptions of risk are better predictors of choices over risky outcomes than science-based or experts' assessments of risk. More recent work suggests that uncertainty about risks also plays a role in predicting choices and behavior. In this article, we develop and estimate a formal model for an individual's perceived health risks associated with arsenic contamination of his or her drinking water. The modeling approach treats risk as a random variable, with an estimable probability distribution whose variance reflects uncertainty. The model we estimate uses data collected from a survey given to a sample of people living in arsenic-prone areas in the United States. The findings from this article support the fact that scientific information is essential to explaining the mortality rate perceived by the individuals, but uncertainty about the probability remains significant.

Nicol, A. M., et al. (2008). "Communicating the risks of a new, emerging pathogen: The case of Cryptococcus gattii." Risk Analysis 28(2): 373-386.	The news media are an important channel for communicating public health messages, providing important information about geographic extent, symptoms, and precautionary measures. This function may be particularly important in the case of new and emerging infectious diseases, which are unfamiliar to both the public and health professionals. We conducted a content analysis of the coverage in six Canadian newspapers of two .emerging infectious pathogens in British Columbia (BC), West Nile virus and Cryptococcus gattii (C. gattii), between 2001 and 2006. C. gattii was first identified in the Canadian Pacific Northwest in 1999, having previously been restricted to tropical and subtropical areas. By summer 2006, C. gattii had killed at least eight people and was responsible for over 150 hospitalizations in the province of BC, as well as significant morbidity and mortality among companion animals. West Nile virus reached Canada in 2001 and has since caused significant morbidity and mortality. It has not, to date, reached BC. Despite the much higher incidence of disease and death caused by C. gattii in BC, West Nile virus received five times more news coverage in the British Columbian and national newspapers examined. Surprisingly, the local newspaper closest to the center of the British Columbia C. gattii outbreak had a much lower proportion of coverage of the disease than other papers in the province. The article discusses possible explanations for these findings, and the implications for public health communication.

Nicol, D. and C. Critchley (2012). "Benefit sharing and biobanking in Australia." Public Understanding of Science 21(5): 534-555.	Biobanks are essential tools for facilitating biomedical research, because they provide collections of human tissue linked with personal information. There is still little understanding of the underlying reasons why people participate in biobanking in the increasingly commercialised and internationalised biomedical research environment. This paper reports the results of an Australia-wide telephone survey. The paper analyses the types of obligations that members of the public may wish to see incorporated in biobank benefit sharing arrangements and the extent to which their views might be influenced by underlying norms of sharing behaviour. Latent class analysis of the dataset reveals three distinct classes of respondents. We link one of these with the norm of reciprocity, one with the norm of social responsibility. The third is not clearly linked with any one norm of sharing behaviour. The implications of these findings on biobank benefit sharing arrangements are discussed.

Niederdeppe, J., et al. (2015). "Using Theory to Identify Beliefs Associated with Intentions to Follow Fish Consumption Advisories Among Anglers Living in the Great Lakes Region." Risk Analysis 35(11): 1996-2008.	Fish consumption advisories are issued by states, tribes, and federal agencies to provide guidance to consumers about eating sport-caught fish potentially affected by chemical contaminants. Previous work has found that while anglers report being aware that advisories are available, awareness and use of specific advisory recommendations is low. This study uses the Integrative Model of Behavioral Prediction (IMBP) to identify beliefs with potential to increase intentions to follow fish consumption advisories in Great Lakes states. We conducted a mail survey of 1,712 licensed anglers in seven of eight Great Lakes states (excluding Ohio) to gauge advisory awareness, cognitive factors influencing fish consumption behaviors (informed by the IMBP), and sociodemographic characteristics. Results show that most anglers reported being generally or vaguely aware of fish consumption advisories and try to follow them, but far fewer report being aware of specific advice needed to decide whether or not to consume different types of sport-caught fish. Informed by the IMBP, we also identify several behavioral, normative, and control beliefs that have sufficient room to change, strong associations with intentions to follow the advisories, and potential to be modified if targeted with strategic risk messages. Targeting these beliefs with strategic communication holds potential to increase the proportion of anglers intending to follow fish consumption advisory recommendations in choosing which fish to eat.

Nielsen, A. P., et al. (2011). "Public participation: democratic ideal or pragmatic tool? The cases of GM foods and functional foods." Public Understanding of Science 20(2): 163-178.	Over recent decades, public participation initiatives have been employed across Europe often with a focus on science and technology issues. In the area of new food technologies most participation initiatives have centered on genetically modified foods. By contrast, in the area of functional foods-where significant EU legislation was recently passed-we have seen no initiatives towards public inclusion. This applies also for Denmark, the country which is the focus of this article. Based on an interview study with members of the Danish parliament the article examines why such considerable differences exist between initiatives to involve the public, and it challenges the role that public participation plays in Danish politics. The main claim made in the article is that although politicians argue for the value and relevance of public participation their willingness to initiate participatory processes is overruled by their concern with playing by the rules of the political game.

Nielsen, K. H. (2008). "Enacting the social relations of science: historical (anti-)boundary-work of Danish science journalist Borge Michelsen." Public Understanding of Science 17(2): 171-188.	This article investigates the writings of Danish science journalist Borge Michelsen from 1939 to 1956. As part of the international social relations of science movement in the period, Michelsen transformed science journalism from mere reporting on issues pertaining to science into performing the social function of science journalism: advancing and enacting the social relations of science. Based on analyses of Michelsen's articles and other initiatives, this study suggests that the social function of science journalism practiced by Michelsen showed many new and conflicting aspects. From a boundary-work perspective, it is argued that, through science journalism, Michelsen not only helped establish new cultural boundaries of science, but also did anti-boundary-work. The notion of anti-boundary-work implies breaking down existing barriers between science and society, all the while establishing new links to reinforce mutual relations between scientists and policy-makers, between scientists and journalists, and between science and the public. Finally, in the concluding remarks, the contemporary significance of Michelsen's social function of science journalism is discussed.

Nielsen, K. H. (2009). "In quest of publicity: the science-media partnership of the Galathea Deep Sea Expedition from 1950 to 1952." Public Understanding of Science 18(4): 464-480.	The Galathea Deep ea Expedition from 1950 to 1952 combined oceanographic research with simultaneous science reporting and strategically seeking publicity. In effect, the expedition organizers ventured into a science-media partnership. From the beginning, reporting scientific exploration to the general public at home and abroad was considered an essential part of the expedition. Combining scientific objectives with publicity concerns, the expedition built on boundary work performed by boundary workers separating science from the media. Several boundary objects were mobilized to facilitate interactions across the cultural border between scientists and journalists. In particular, the mythological sea serpent domesticated by scientists and fully adopted by journalists played an important role in aligning the scientific aspects of the expedition with publicity and science reporting. The historical narrative of the expedition feeds into contemporary discussions about the dominant discourse on science and the media.

Nielsen, K. H. (2014). "The Sciences' Media Connection - Public Communication and its Repercussions." Public Understanding of Science 23(3): 364-364.
	
Nielsen, K. H. (2018). "The cunning of uncertainty." Public Understanding of Science 27(2): 260-260.
	
Nielsen, K. H. and C. Autzen (2011). "Looking Over the Shoulders of Researchers: In Quest of a Research-Media Partnership and Online, News Media-Based Researcher Identities on the Galathea 3 Expedition From 2006 to 2007." Science Communication 33(4): 472-500.	The Galathea 3 Expedition from 2006 to 2007 combined research and online news media, allowing journalists literally to "look over the shoulders of researchers." The authors analyze 781 news articles published online by three media partners of the expedition, all well-established media companies including high-quality newspapers in their portfolio. Less than half of all articles covered research. The articles about research mainly represented researchers as knowledgeable, enthusiastic, and hardworking experts. Taking into consideration public criticism and clashes between journalists and researchers, the authors situate the research-media partnership and their findings in contemporary debates about science and the media.

Nielsen, K. H. and R. S. Kjaergaard (2011). "News Coverage of Climate Change in Nature News and ScienceNOW during 2007." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(1): 25-44.	Climate change has become one of the most favored topics in mass media, political discourses, and scientific discussions during the past decade. By the end of 2007 the scientific journals Science and Nature both demonstrated the urgency of climate change by emphasizing the importance and necessity of appreciating climate change, its severe consequences, and its anthropogenic causes. During that year the two journals' online news services Nature News and ScienceNOW framed climate change to fit particular agendas resulting in markedly different narratives. This article demonstrates that Nature News reported more critically on political decisions, scientific results, and social matters of climate change compared to ScienceNOW. Operating under different institutional constraints ScienceNOW generally took a more cautious line. The evidence drawn from both textual and visual analyses shows that news sections run by scientific journals are very similar to mass media in framing their coverage of science to fit specific agendas.

Nielsen, K. H. and M. P. Sorensen (2017). "How to take non-knowledge seriously, or "the unexpected virtue of ignorance"." Public Understanding of Science 26(3): 385-392.	This commentary argues that we need to take ignorance and non-knowledge seriously in the fields of science communication and public understanding of science. As much as we want ignorance to disappear, it seems that it is here to stayin the sciences and in the rest of society. Drawing on the vast but scattered literature on ignorance and non-knowledge, we suggest that paying closer attention to these phenomena could be beneficial for science communicators. Despite the fact that ignorance and non-knowledge, just like knowledge, today are highly politicized fields, they may also open up for new lines of inquiry and may be key to more pluralistic and equal democratic deliberation about science and technology.

Niemi, M. K. and V. Pitkanen (2017). "Gendered use of experts in the media: Analysis of the gender gap in Finnish news journalism." Public Understanding of Science 26(3): 355-368.	Several studies conducted in Western democracies have indicated that men continue to be overrepresented and women underrepresented as experts in the media. This article explores the situation in Finland, a progressive and female-friendly' Nordic country with highly educated women who are widely present in the job market. The analysis is based on three sets of research data featuring a wide set of media data, a survey and interviews. This study reveals that public expertise continues to be male dominated in Finland: less than 30% of the experts interviewed in the news media are women. While the distribution of work and power in the labour market may explain some of the observed gender gap, journalistic practices and a masculine tradition of public expertise are likely to play a role as well.

Niewohner, J., et al. (2004). "Evaluating the efficacy of a mental models approach for improving occupational chemical risk protection." Risk Analysis 24(2): 349-361.	Chemical risk protection in the workplace relies partly on informing workers about possible risks using material safety data sheets (MSDS). This article reports on phase 2 of a project (phase I reported in Cox et al.), which employed a mental models approach to improve on data sheets as communicative interventions for perchloroethylene in dry cleaning and rosin-based solder flux in the electronics industry within small businesses in the United Kingdom (small enterprises (SEs) < 25 employees in the workplace). It focuses on the efficacy of a multimethod evaluation strategy to assess (1) the capacity of a mental models approach to yield contextually relevant data for intervention design and (2) the effectiveness of the strategy itself in validating the mental models data. The evaluation was conducted using postal questionnaires and semistructured verbal protocols to provide responses to the alternative intervention content and to prioritize risk messages. User discussion groups were then employed, particularly as a means of establishing whether contextual information could be obtained that would differ qualitatively from the kind elicited through individual (semi) structured methods. We conclude that the mental models approach as part of an iterative process including systematic multimethod evaluation is successful in supporting the design of relevant communications to the users of chemicals. The overall viability of communicative interventions in the context of health and safety in small businesses remains in question. Future research might aim to develop a more holistic approach to interventions in complex occupational contexts.

Nisbet, E. C., et al. (2015). "Ignorance or bias? Evaluating the ideological and informational drivers of communication gaps about climate change." Public Understanding of Science 24(3): 285-301.	Does the relationship between media use and learning about climate change depend more on audiences' scientific literacy on their ideological biases? To answer this question, we evaluate both the knowledge gap and belief gap hypotheses as they relate to climate change. Results indicate belief gaps for news and entertainment content and a knowledge gap for edutainment content. Climate change knowledge among conservatives decreased with greater attention to political news, but increased with greater attention to science news. TV entertainment was associated with a significant decrease in knowledge about climate change among liberals to similar levels as conservatives. Edutainment was associated with a widening gap in knowledge based on respondents' scientific literacy. Implications for informal learning about controversial science through the media are discussed.

Nisbet, M. C. and R. K. Goidel (2007). "Understanding citizen perceptions of science controversy: bridging the ethnographic-survey research divide." Public Understanding of Science 16(4): 421-440.	Using the contemporary debate in the United States over embryonic stem cell research as a test case, we outline a theoretical framework that points to the central impact of value predispositions, schema, political knowledge, and forms of mass media use in shaping public perceptions of science. In the process, by proposing an alternative approach to the dominant science literacy model, we address the existing divide between survey-based and ethnographic studies. Analyzing nationally representative survey data collected in the US in the fall of 2003, our findings suggest that value predispositions related to Christian conservatism and social ideology, along with schema related to abortion and reservations about science, serve as primary influences on citizen evaluations of embryonic stem cell research and therapeutic cloning, while our measure of issue-specific political knowledge had no statistically significant impact. In addition, after all controls, attention to newspaper coverage along with various forms of genre-specific entertainment television use have unique influences on citizen evaluations, suggesting that the mass media provide an important part of the social context by which citizens judge controversial science. Other survey results since our data collection in 2003 lend support to our findings. Religious and ideological values appear to filter the influence of information disseminated by scientific institutions. We conclude by discussing future research that connects findings from ethnographic studies with survey-based approaches.

Nisbet, M. C. and J. E. Kotcher (2009). "A Two-Step Flow of Influence? Opinion-Leader Campaigns on Climate Change." Science Communication 30(3): 328-354.	In this article, we review concepts, measures, and strategies that can be applied to opinion-leader campaigns on climate change. These campaigns can be used to catalyze wider political engagement on the issue and to promote sustainable consumer choices and behaviors. From past research, we outline six relevant categories of self-designated opinion-leaders, detailing issues related to identification, recruitment, training, message development, and coordination. We additionally analyze as prominent initiatives Al Gore's The Climate Project and his more recent We campaign, which combines the recruitment of digital opinion-leaders with traditional media strategies. In evaluating digital opinion-leader campaigns, we conclude that there are likely to be significant trade-offs in comparison to face-to-face initiatives. The challenge for both scholars and practitioners is to understand under what conditions are digital opinion-leaders effective and in which ways can online interactions strengthen or build on real-world connections.

Nisbet, M. C. and B. V. Lewenstein (2002). "Biotechnology and the American media - The policy process and the elite press, 1970 to 1999." Science Communication 23(4): 359-391.	The authors present a quantitative content analysis of biotechnology-related coverage appearing in the New York Times and Newsweek between 1970 and 1999, examining patterns of media attention and evaluating the source impact of various political and social actors on the themes, frames, and tone of coverage. Although media attention to biotechnology steadily increased across the 1980s and most of the 1990s, it has been highly episodic, peaking and plummeting in response to major scientific announcements. Even in its peak years of coverage, biotechnology still rests rather modestly on the overall media agenda compared with other issues related to science, technology, or popular culture. The character of biotechnology-related coverage has been overwhelmingly positive, with heavy emphasis on the frames of scientific progress and economic prospect. A departure from this trend only occurs in correspondence to the late 1990s debate over cloning, as a greater media emphasis on ethics and controversy emerges.

Nisker, J. and A. S. Daar (2006). "Moral presentation of genetics-based narratives for public understanding of genetic science and its implications." Public Understanding of Science 15(1): 113-123.	The increasing number of sequenced genes that can be used to develop tests for inherited conditions has stimulated an increasing number of genetics-based narratives by journalists, novelists, playwrights, filmmakers, and health-care educators. Genetics-based narratives are to be welcomed if the public is to understand genetic science and its implications on persons, families, and communities. However, a number of important ethical issues insist caution in their research and presentation. Just as the requirements for informed consent to undergo genetic testing exceed the requirements for informed consent to undergo other types of medical testing because of the inherent complex relationships (such as between parent and child, gene carrier and other family members, gene carrier and ethnic community) and because of concerns regarding privacy and insurance discrimination, the requirements for informed consent to present a genetics-based narrative must exceed the requirements for informed consent to present other medical narratives. We recommend that a transmedia, multidisciplinary, international conference should be convened to develop guidelines for the moral presentation of genetics-based narratives, whose deliberations should be informed by the protections provided for narrative research participants, the requirements of consent for genetic testing (which include a counseling process involving all appropriate family members), and a professional obligation to do no harm to the persons and families whose genetics-based stories we present.

Norlin, G. (2005). "Report: EuroScience Open Forum 2004 - Independent arena for dialogue on science in Europe." Science Communication 26(3): 312-317.	An innovative pan-European interdisciplinary science meeting was held in Stockholm, Sweden, August 25 to 28, 2004. The EuroScience Open Forum 2004 attracted more than 1, 800 participants from 68 countries, with more than 11,000 people participating in the public events. The following report describes this unique conference, planned as a biennial event.

Norris, S. P., et al. (2003). "University students' interpretation of media reports of science and its relationship to background knowledge, interest, and reading difficulty." Public Understanding of Science 12(2): 123-145.	Three hundred and eight first and second year university students were asked to read five media reports that described recent scientific research and findings. We instructed the students to interpret and make judgments about the certainty, status, and role of statements identified in the reports, and to assess how much knowledge they had about the general topics of the reports, their interest in the general topics, and their difficulty reading each report. Students' performance on the interpretive tasks mirrored in major detail the performance of a group of high school students studied previously. The university students displayed a certainty bias in their responses to questions regarding truth status, confused cause and correlation, and had difficulty distinguishing explanations of phenomena from the phenomena themselves. The university students' self-assessments of their knowledge, interests, and reading difficulty were able to explain virtually none of the variance in their interpretive performance. In general, the university students had an inflated view of their ability to understand the five media reports. Implications for the development of scientific literacy are discussed.

Northfield, J. K. and C. R. McMahon (2010). "Crikey! Overstating the Conservation Influence of the Crocodile Hunter." Science Communication 32(3): 412-417.	As humans recognise their environmental responsibilities, it is timely to investigate the influence celebrities have on social causes, including conservation. Recently, Brown explored the conservation influence of Steve Irwin. In our commentary, we argue that Irwin was not a conservation champion but an environmental celebrity. His style, while entertaining, was intrusive and his knowledge of biodiversity limited. Nonetheless, his effects to conserve wildlife through land acquisition and popularise conservation will be long lasting. Awareness is key to conservation, and Irwin brought issues to the fore. However, his role in imparting knowledge and respect for animals is debateable.

Norton, T. (2007). "The Structuration of Public Participation: Organizing Environmental Control." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(2): 146-170.	A growing body of participation literature muses over why current mechanisms of public participation persist when they so often fail; calls for expanding the conceptual boundaries of participation beyond institutional mechanisms, and highlights the role communication, and allied concepts such as discourse and rhetoric, play in participatory processes. Given these diverse calls, environmental public participation can benefit from building a mid-level theoretical terrain. In this essay, I draw upon the sociological tradition of Anthony Giddens' structuration theory and parallel systems thinking which foreground a structure-action mode of analysis. Through this lens I articulate the basic premises of a structuration model for environmental public participation, pointing especially to issues of agency, which involves ontological security and ontological competence, social systems, and various elements within duality of structure, with an eye toward communication-centered research. This theoretical space further indicates the possibilities of connecting the material realm of action/practice with the symbolic domain of environmental self.

Novikau, A. (2017). "Nuclear power debate and public opinion in Belarus: From Chernobyl to Ostrovets." Public Understanding of Science 26(3): 275-288.	The Belarusian government's decision of the last decade to build a nuclear power plant near the city of Ostrovets, in northern Belarus, has proven to be controversial, resulting in a great deal of debate about nuclear energy in the country. The debate was inevitably shaped by the traumatic event that affected Belarus - the Chernobyl nuclear accident of 1986. The Belarusian authorities have consistently promoted a positive view of nuclear energy to the population in order to overcome the so-called Chernobyl syndrome' and deliberately shaped nuclear risk communication. As a result, the issue of trust remains crucial in all nuclear debates in Belarus.

Novikau, A. (2017). "What is "Chernobyl Syndrome?" The Use of Radiophobia in Nuclear Communications." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 800-809.	This article examines the use of radiophobia, Chernobyl syndrome, irrationality, and other similar concepts in communications on nuclear issues. Historically, these terms have been used in two ways: to describe psychological effects among people affected by nuclear disasters such as Hiroshima or Chernobyl, and to explain the concerns of the unaffected lay public about radiation or nuclear power projects. The latter was actively used in the Soviet Union and in post-Soviet countries such as Belarus to rejects citizens' complaints and to denounce the arguments of the anti-nuclear camp. This study argues that although the terms can legitimately be used in many situations, their use in communications about nuclear issues can be problematic.

Nowotny, H. (2014). "Engaging with the political imaginaries of science: Near misses and future targets." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 16-20.	The current economic and financial crisis is also a political crisis that requires a rethinking of public engagement with science. In the past, the dominant focus of science, technology and society (STS) has led to a blind spot: political understanding and engagement of policy-makers and politicians with science, which is an integral part of any public engagement. Arguably, it is bound to and emerges from what Ezrahi calls collective political imaginaries. These are necessary fictions, which are causative and performative. In crude form, they manifest themselves in short-term impact measurements of every unit of scientific activity with citizens as the fictitious ultimate beneficiaries. In the future, STS can gain from coming up with a workable definition of the public interest with a focus on the public value of science. It can investigate collective imaginaries as they emerge from interactions with new media. As necessary fictions they may hold answers we never imagined them to hold.

Nucci, M. L., et al. (2009). "When Good Food Goes Bad Television Network News and the Spinach Recall of 2006." Science Communication 31(2): 238-265.	In September 2006, an unprecedented nationwide outbreak of fresh spinach contaminated with Escherichia coli O157:H7 was communicated to the American public through press releases from the Food and Drug Administration. The potential for severe and fatal illness from consuming this spinach required effective communication by media outlets. Television network news coverage (ABC, CBS, and NBC morning and evening news shows) was examined for quantity, consistency with press release information critical for public health, and source usage. Results of this study consider the role of government information subsidies in disseminating information critical to public health, with potential impact for communication of other national health crises.

Nucci, M. L. and R. Kubey (2007). ""We Begin Tonight With Fruits and Vegetables" - Genetically modified food on the evening news 1980-2003." Science Communication 29(2): 147-176.	Although the literature addresses U.S. newspaper coverage of the issue of genetically modified (GM) food, there is no corresponding literature on television coverage, in spite of the fact that television is still a primary source in the United States for information about science. This article discusses national evening news coverage (ABC, CBS, NBC) of GM food on U.S. television from 1980 to 2003, critical years of both introduction and controversy. This examination of quantity, placement, length, and spokespersons pointed out minimal coverage by networks, as well as a lack of consonance, indicating different newsroom practices on the issue of GM food.

Nunes, R. (2012). "The Feeling of Risk: New Perspectives on Risk Perception." Public Understanding of Science 21(5): 648-648.
	
Nyirenda, D., et al. (2018). "Public engagement in Malawi through a health-talk radio programme "Umoyo nkukambirana': A mixed-methods evaluation." Public Understanding of Science 27(2): 229-242.	Radio is an effective source of health information in many resource poor countries. In Malawi, 53% of households own radios however few radio programmes in Malawi focus on health issues in the context of medical research. An interactive health-talk radio programme Umoyo nkukambirana' was introduced by Malawi-Liverpool-Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Programme on a national radio station. The aim was to increase awareness of health and medical research, and improve engagement between researchers, healthcare workers and the public. The content and presentation were developed through participatory community consultations. Focus Group Discussions were conducted with established Radio Listening Clubs whilst quantitative data was collected using toll free FrontlineSMS to explore national response. A total of 277 to 695 SMS (Median: 477) were received per theme. The majority of SMS were received from men (64%) and mainly from rural areas (54%). The programme improved knowledge of medical research, health and dispelled misconceptions. This study suggests that the radio may be an effective means of increasing the exposure of men to health information in resource poor settings.

O'Brien, T. L. (2013). "Scientific authority in policy contexts: Public attitudes about environmental scientists, medical researchers, and economists." Public Understanding of Science 22(7): 799-816.	This paper uses data from the US General Social Survey to examine public support for scientists in policy contexts and its link to scientific disciplines. An analysis of attitudes about the amount of influence that environmental scientists, two kinds of medical researchers, and economists should have over policy decisions reveals that in each discipline the extent to which scientists are thought to serve the nation's best interests is the strongest determinant of attitudes about scientists as policy advisors. Perceptions of scientists' technical knowledge and the level of consensus in the scientific community also have direct, albeit weaker effects on opinions about scientists' appropriate roles in policy settings. Whereas previous research has stressed the importance of local variability in understanding the transfer of scientific authority across institutional boundaries, these results point to considerable homogeneity in the social bases of scientific authority in policy contexts.

O'Brien, T. L. (2018). "Gender and support for expert advisers and elected officials in the US public sphere." Public Understanding of Science 27(2): 243-259.	This article uses data from the US General Social Survey to examine the relationship between gender and support for different forms of cultural authority. An analysis of public attitudes about expert advisers and elected officials involved in policy decisions related to science reveals that women assign more influence than men to experts in decisions about global warming and stem cell research but not genetically modified food. In contrast, men assign more influence than women to elected leaders across policy domains. Importantly, gender differences in support for expert advisers and elected leaders are independent of variation in more general attitudes about science and politics. Overall, this article suggests that there are underlying differences in men's and women's attitudes about cultural authority and it highlights the importance of gender in understanding the political legitimacy of scientists in the United States.

O'Connor, C. and H. Joffe (2013). "How has neuroscience affected lay understandings of personhood? A review of the evidence." Public Understanding of Science 22(3): 254-268.	The prominence of neuroscience in the public sphere has escalated in recent years, provoking questions about how the public engages with neuroscientific ideas. Commentaries on neuroscience's role in society often present it as having revolutionary implications, fundamentally overturning established beliefs about personhood. The purpose of this article is to collate and review the extant empirical evidence on the influence of neuroscience on commonsense understandings of personhood. The article evaluates the scope of neuroscience's presence in public consciousness and examines the empirical evidence for three frequently encountered claims about neuroscience's societal influence: that neuroscience fosters a conception of the self that is based in biology, that neuroscience promotes conceptions of individual fate as predetermined, and that neuroscience attenuates the stigma attached to particular social categories. It concludes that many neuroscientific ideas have assimilated in ways that perpetuate rather than challenge existing modes of understanding self, others and society.

O'Connor, C. and H. Joffe (2014). "Social Representations of Brain Research: Exploring Public (Dis)engagement With Contemporary Neuroscience." Science Communication 36(5): 617-645.	Recent years have seen a major expansion of the position of neuroscience in the mass media, public policy, and legal dialogue. Drawing on interviews with 48 London residents, this article examines how people with no prior involvement with neuroscience make sense of the concept of "brain research." Thematic analysis of the data furnished little evidence that neuroscience has meaningfully infiltrated lay thinking. Respondents consigned brain knowledge to the "other world" of science, which was seen as a decidedly separate social milieu. They envisioned that the only route by which they might become alert to brain information would be if they developed a neurological illness. This article considers the social and psychological dynamics that shape neuroscience's dissipation into public consciousness.

O'Connor, R. E., et al. (1998). "Rating threat mitigators: Faith in experts, governments, and individuals themselves to create a safer world." Risk Analysis 18(5): 547-556.	This research explores public judgments about the threat-reducing potential of experts, individual behavior, and government spending. The data are responses of a national sample of 1225 to mail surveys that include measures of several dimensions of public judgments about violent crime, automobile accidents, hazardous chemical waste, air pollution, water pollution, global warming, AIDS, heart disease, and cancer. Beliefs about who can best mitigate threats are specific to classes of threats. In general, there is little faith that experts can do much about violent crime and automobile accidents, moderate faith in their ability to address problems of global warming, and greater expectations for expert solutions to the remaining threats. People judge individual behavior as effective in reducing the threats of violent crime, AIDS, heart disease, and automobile accidents but less so for the remaining threats. Faith in moire government spending is highest for AIDS and the other two health items, lowest for the trio of violent crime, automobile accidents, and global warming, and moderate for the remaining threats. For most threats, people are not distributed at the extremes in judging mitigators. Strong attitudinal and demographic cleavages are also lacking, although some interesting relationships occur. This relative lack of sharp cleavages and the generally moderate opinion indicate ample opportunity for public education and risk communication.

O'Keefe, G. J. (2011). "Environment Reporters in the 21st Century." Science Communication 33(1): 134-136.
	
O'Keefe, G. J. (2013). "Fostering Sustainable Behavior: An Introduction to Community-Based Social Marketing (3rd Edition)." Science Communication 35(1): 138-139.
	
O'Keefe, G. J., et al. (2002). "A repertoire approach to a environmental information channels." Science Communication 23(4): 392-409.	This study supports the hypothesis that individuals use repertoires or groups of overlapping information channels for various purposes. Landowners in three Wisconsin counties were segmented into urbanites, rural nonfarmers, and farmers. The authors analyzed the frequencies with which these groups used different channels and repertoires of channels for information regarding conservation. For each of the populations, three repertoires emerged. although each included different channel arrays. Also, within each population, demographic and conservation-related predictors of repertoires varied.

O'Neill, E., et al. (2018). "The Dynamics of Justification in Policy Reform: Insights from Water Policy Debates in Ireland." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(4): 451-461.	Policy reform can be complex and fraught with contending arguments. Although much research has been conducted into the politics of coalition formation, less attention has been devoted to legitimating logics in policy reform. Drawing on the work of Boltanski and Thevenot, this exploratory study addresses this deficit by examining the influence of justifications deployed in policy debates. The paper analyses the role of shifting reasoning in contentious debates concerning attempts to reform water policy, including the introduction of domestic water charges in Ireland. Employing data from parliamentary deliberations, the paper traces the changing forms of justification used by those favouring and opposing the reforms. This examination suggests the importance of aligning an argument's content with the shifting context into which it is introduced. The paper highlights the benefits of an investigative approach concerning policy justification for understanding policy reform dynamics at the intersection of politics and environmental communication.

O'Neill, K. (2003). "A vital fluid: risk, controversy and the politics of blood donation in the era of "mad cow disease"." Public Understanding of Science 12(4): 359-380.	This article examines the reasons for, and likely impact of, the decision by the US and other countries to permanently defer blood donors who have spent time in Britain or Europe, for fear they may transmit new variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD), the human form of "mad cow disease." It begins by discussing how vCJD and blood transfusion are linked, and how these have been translated into policy. First, maintaining a safe and stable supply of blood entails not only maintaining the trust of recipients in the system, but also that of donors, who need to be assured that their blood will be welcomed and used. Often, the balance, once upset, is regained by sacrificing donors, but accompanying costs might also be high. Second, the article highlights the impact of various forms of globalization-of commerce, disease and travel, and immigration-on blood policies and public and policy attitudes. Third, it assesses the decision by the US to restrict blood donations from Europeans and travelers to combat such a pervasive risk. The conclusion discusses how donor deferral policies may be interpreted by the public in the light of earlier discussions, and raises issues for future research.

O'Neill, S. and S. Nicholson-Cole (2009). ""Fear Won't Do It" Promoting Positive Engagement With Climate Change Through Visual and Iconic Representations." Science Communication 30(3): 355-379.	Fear-inducing representations of climate change are widely employed in the public domain. However, there is a lack of clarity in the literature about the impacts that fearful messages in climate change communications have on people's senses of engagement with the issue and associated implications for public engagement strategies. Some literature suggests that using fearful representations of climate change may be counterproductive. The authors explore this assertion in the context of two empirical studies that investigated the role of visual, and iconic, representations of climate change for public engagement respectively. Results demonstrate that although such representations have much potential for attracting people's attention to climate change, fear is generally an ineffective tool for motivating genuine personal engagement. Nonthreatening imagery and icons that link to individuals' everyday emotions and concerns in the context of this macro-environmental issue tend to be the most engaging. Recommendations for constructively engaging individuals with climate change are given.

O'Riordan, K., et al. (2017). "The first bite: Imaginaries, promotional publics and the laboratory grown burger." Public Understanding of Science 26(2): 148-163.	In this article, we analyse a 2013 press conference hosting the world's first tasting of a laboratory grown hamburger. We explore this as a media event: an exceptional performative moment in which common meanings are mobilised and a connection to a shared centre of reality is offered. We develop our own theoretical contribution - the promotional public - to characterise the affirmative and partial patchwork of carefully selected actors invoked during the burger tasting. Our account draws on three areas of analysis: interview data with the scientists who developed the burger, media analysis of the streamed press conference itself and media analysis of social media during and following the event. We argue that the call to witness an experiment is a form of promotion and that such promotional material also offers an address that invokes a public with its attendant tensions.

Ockwell, D., et al. (2009). "Reorienting Climate Change Communication for Effective Mitigation Forcing People to be Green or Fostering Grass-Roots Engagement?" Science Communication 30(3): 305-327.	Climate communication approaches expend significant resources promoting attitudinal change, but research suggests that encouraging attitudinal change alone is unlikely to be effective. The link between an individual's attitudes and subsequent behavior is mediated by other influences, such as social norms and the "free-rider" effect. One way to engender mitigative behaviors would be to introduce regulation that forces green behavior, but government fears a resulting loss of precious political capital. Conversely, communication approaches that advocate individual, voluntary action ignore the social and structural impediments to behavior change. The authors argue that there are two crucial, but distinct, roles that communication could play in engaging the public in low carbon lifestyles: first, to facilitate public acceptance of regulation and second, to stimulate grass-roots action through affective and rational engagement with climate change. The authors also argue that using communication to stimulate demand for regulation may reconcile these "top-down" and "bottom-up" approaches.

Ofori-Parku, S. S. (2016). ""Whale Deaths" Are Unnatural: A Local NGO's Framing of Offshore Oil Production Risks in Ghana." Science Communication 38(6): 746-775.	The past several decades have seen a shift in environmental and risk communication that emphasizes harnessing local knowledge to enhance environmental advocacy. As a result, one would expect local advocacy organizations to manifest this shift. Using Friends of the Nation (FoN; a Ghanaian local advocacy organization) as a case study, this research examines how FoN is constructing offshore oil production risks. The study found that FoN uses whale deaths as an exemplar of ecological risks associated with offshore oil production, even though in Ghanaian folk culture coastal communities view whale deaths as signs of bumper fish harvest. The article argues that the disconnect between the dominant frame and local meaning system could be explained in terms of FoN's policymakers-facing as opposed (or in addition) to community residents-facing engagement approach. Recommendations for environmental advocacy are discussed.

Ofori-Parku, S. S. (2018). "Tacit knowledge and risk perceptions: Tullow Oil and lay publics in Ghana's offshore oil region." Public Understanding of Science 27(2): 197-213.	This study examines how local residents make sense of offshore oil production risks in Ghana's nascent petroleum industry. From a naturalistic-interpretive perspective, it is primarily based on in-depth interviews with community residents: 8 opinion leaders, 15 residents, and 1 journalist. Residents associate Tullow's oil activities with health concerns (e.g. conjunctivitis), environmental challenges (e.g. the emergence of decomposed seaweeds along the shore), and socio-economic concerns (e.g. loss of livelihoods, decline in fish harvest, and increased rent and cost of living). Focusing on how the local, practical knowledge of interviewees manifest in their sense of offshore oil risks, the study identifies two strategiesscapegoating and tacit knowingunderlying how residents construe offshore oil risks and benefits. Beyond its theoretical contribution to the social construction of risk process, the study illustrates the challenge the expert-lay publics dichotomy poses (and the potential bridging this dichotomy has) for corporate and societal risk management.

Ohnuma, S., et al. (2007). "Do self-sanctioning and outsider intervention instill trust in the information disclosure process?" Journal of Risk Research 10(6): 883-898.	This study explored two questions: 1) what kind of method for instilling trust is evaluated to be important by the general public and 2) who is considered as a legitimate third party, when administrators and organizations go through an information disclosure process. We hypothesized that voluntary declaration of self-sanctions, before an issue becomes public, would be important in instilling trust as well as the intervention of outsiders. Further, we explored which groups were evaluated as acceptable third parties. In a social survey conducted in the Kanto district of Japan, 621 responses (24.8% response rate) were obtained using a two stage systematic stratified random sampling method and mail-out procedure. Results showed that declaration of self- sanctions was seen as most important in instilling trust, but with involvement of an outsider also seen as important. An analysis of possible trusted third parties showed that academics and citizens interested in the issue were considered as most appropriate 'outsiders', while politicians, governor/mayor and administrative officials were considered less appropriate. Finally, cluster analysis showed that mass media was included within the same cluster as the political group.

Oigenblick, L., et al. (1996). "Fundamental reorganization in scientific administration - The Khozraschet initiative in Russian applied science." Science Communication 18(2): 131-152.	The system of science in the former Soviet Union was based an a command administration that centralized decision making at government ministries. In. 1987, the government introduced the new system of khozraschet, or accountability, granting a greater degree of administrative freedom to research institutes but obligating them to take responsibility for financing their. activities In a 1991 survey, scientists at three Moscow research and development institutes expressed a high degree of support for the administrative changes. The study of the three institutes revealed that major structural alterations had already taken place. By the beginning of 1996, many of the expectations for improved conditions had not been fulfilled, as a high degree of instability became evident in the Russian scientific system The Russian example demonstrates the need for balance in institutional arrangements to advance science: change must provide solutions to all system problems or else substantial damage can be done to the scientific enterprise.

Okamura, K. (2016). "Dynamic development of public attitudes towards science policymaking." Public Understanding of Science 25(4): 465-479.	Understanding the heterogeneity of mechanisms that form public attitudes towards science and technology policymaking is essential to the establishment of an effective public engagement platform. Using the 2011 public opinion survey data from Japan (n=6,136), I divided the general public into three categories: the Attentive public, who are willing to actively engage with science and technology policymaking dialogue; the Interested public, who have moderate interest in science and technology but rely on experts for policy decisions; and the Residual public, who have minimal interest in science and technology. On the basis of the results of multivariate regression analysis, I have identified several key predispositions towards science and technology and other socio-demographic characteristics that influence the shift of individuals from one category of the general public to another. The findings provide a foundation for understanding how to induce more accountable, evidence-based science and technology policymaking.

Okan, Y., et al. (2018). "Designing Graphs that Promote Both Risk Understanding and Behavior Change." Risk Analysis 38(5): 929-946.	Graphs show promise for improving communications about different types of risks, including health risks, financial risks, and climate risks. However, graph designs that are effective at meeting one important risk communication goal (promoting risk-avoidant behaviors) can at the same time compromise another key goal (improving risk understanding). We developed and tested simple bar graphs aimed at accomplishing these two goals simultaneously. We manipulated two design features in graphs, namely, whether graphs depicted the number of people affected by a risk and those at risk of harm (foreground+background) versus only those affected (foreground-only), and the presence versus absence of simple numerical labels above bars. Foreground-only displays were associated with larger risk perceptions and risk-avoidant behavior (i.e., willingness to take a drug for heart attack prevention) than foreground+background displays, regardless of the presence of labels. Foreground-only graphs also hindered risk understanding when labels were not present. However, the presence of labels significantly improved understanding, eliminating the detrimental effect of foreground-only displays. Labels also led to more positive user evaluations of the graphs, but did not affect risk-avoidant behavior. Using process modeling we identified mediators (risk perceptions, understanding, user evaluations) that explained the effect of display type on risk-avoidant behavior. Our findings contribute new evidence to the graph design literature: unlike what was previously feared, we demonstrate that it is possible to design foreground-only graphs that promote intentions for behavior change without a detrimental effect on risk understanding. Implications for the design of graphical risk communications and decision support are discussed.

Olausson, U. (2009). "Global warming-global responsibility? Media frames of collective action and scientific certainty." Public Understanding of Science 18(4): 421-436.	The increasing interconnectedness of the world that characterizes the process of globalization compels us to interlink local, national, and transnational phenomena, such as environmental risks, in both journalistic and academic discourse. Among environmental risks of global scope climate change is probably the one receiving the most attention at present, not least in the media. Globalization notwithstanding, national media are still dominated by a national logic in the presentation of news, and tensions arise between this media logic and the transnational character of environmental risks that call for a collective responsibility transcending the borders of the nation-states. This article presents results from studies of the construction of global climate change in three Swedish newspapers. ut discusses the media's attribution of responsibility for collective action along an axis ranging from local to national to transnational, and highlights the media's reluctance to display any kind of scientific uncertainty that would undermine the demand for collective action. The results underline the media's responsiveness to the political setting in which they operate and the growing relevance of the transnational political realm of Europe for the construction of news frames on global climate change in European national media.

Olausson, U. (2011). ""We're the Ones to Blame": Citizens' Representations of Climate Change and the Role of the Media." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(3): 281-299.	In the discussion on how to meet the challenges of climate change the important role of news reporting is often emphasized; the media are considered to have significant influence on citizens' understandings of the issue. However, studies that empirically explore the media's role in shaping these understandings are rather scarce compared with analyses of media content alone. While fully acknowledging the fruitfulness of the study of media material, this article argues that there are tendencies in these studies to, in a somewhat "media-centric" fashion, reduce the complexity of the relationship between media content and audience reception. The article, which reports on findings from a focus-group study containing 53 Swedish citizens, starts from the premise that this relationship must be subjected to empirical analysis rather than axiomatically asserted, and aims to contribute empirically based knowledge on the connection between media staging of climate change and citizens' representations of this global risk.

Olausson, U. (2018). ""Stop Blaming the Cows!": How Livestock Production is Legitimized in Everyday Discourse on Facebook." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(1): 28-43.	In 2016, Swedish climate reporting declined in quantity and shifted focus somewhat from climate change as such to the harmful climate impacts of meat consumption. The latter prompted discussions in social mediaan increasingly important forum for public debate but infrequently studied in environmental communication research. Despite strong evidence that a meat and dairy-based diet is harmful for the environment, meat consumption is increasing, and this qualitative study aims tothrough the lens of social representation theorycontribute knowledge about how livestock production is legitimized in everyday discourse on Facebook. The article identifies representations that legitimize livestock production through polarization between (1) livestock production and other (environmental) issues, (2) environmentally good and bad countries, and (3) reliable and unreliable information. It concludes by discussing the influence of national ideology on the legitimization of livestock production and the potential of social media to counter the post-politicization of environmental issues.

Olausson, U. and P. Berglez (2014). "Media and Climate Change: Four Long-standing Research Challenges Revisited." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(2): 249-265.	This paper suggests some further avenues of empirical and theoretical investigation for media research on climate change. "Old" suggestions, whose significance, as we see it, needs to be further reinforced, are included, as are "new" ones, which we hope will generate innovative research questions. In order to integrate the analysis with knowledge generated by media research at large, we revisit four research challenges that media scholars have long grappled with in the investigation of journalism: (1) the discursive challenge, i.e. the production, content and reception of media discourse; (2) the interdisciplinary challenge, i.e. how media research might engage in productive collaboration with other disciplines; (3) the international challenge, i.e. how to achieve a more diverse and complex understanding of news reporting globally; and (4) the practical challenge, i.e. how to reduce the theory-practice divide in media research.

Olausson, U. and P. Berglez (2014). "Media Research on Climate Change: Where Have We Been and Where Are We Heading?" Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(2): 139-141.
	
Olive, A. and A. B. Delshad (2017). "Fracking and Framing: A Comparative Analysis of Media Coverage of Hydraulic Fracturing in Canadian and US Newspapers." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 784-799.	Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is a controversial but popular method of extracting oil and gas in North America. There are a myriad of completing claims about the economic benefits and the environmental costs of the technology. This paper examines news media coverage of fracking in four Canadian and four American newspapers over a five-year period. A comparison is made at the national level as well as at a paired subnational level between jurisdictions where fracking is embraced and where fracking is banned. The paper demonstrates that in both countries the main storyline is about water quality, but beyond that differences emerge as Americans focus more on wildlife and public health and Canadians focus more on moratoriums and energy independence. Moreover, while there were similarities in media coverage of fracking in pro-fracking and anti-fracking jurisdictions, there were notable differences in attention to the topics of public health and economic benefits.

Oliveri, S. and G. Pravettoni (2018). "Capturing how individuals perceive genetic risk information: a phenomenological perspective." Journal of Risk Research 21(2): 259-267.	The prevailing scientific approach to genetic risk information centres around communication of risk in terms of numerical probabilities. However, it is well known that individuals have difficulties in understanding and making sense of this information in their own lives. There is, accordingly, a need to investigate whether any methodologies in psychological research may shed light on how individuals perceive genetic risk information within their specific contexts of family history, personal relationships, lifestyles and future plans. To explore whether hermeneutic phenomenology and methodology may offer a deeper understanding of an individual's perception of having a hereditary predisposition, we conducted a literature search. We found that Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis may be a fruitful approach to an individual's lived experiential world. The studies analysed showed how individuals interpret information about genetic risk in the light of their own beliefs about the multiple causes of illness, patterns of heredity and observable risk factors in their families. People's understanding of their experience is derived from an intricate interconnectedness with others that arises in the context of a world shaped in equal measure by language and culture, on the one hand, and bodies and objects on the other.

Olofsson, A. and S. Ohman (2015). "Vulnerability, values and heterogeneity: one step further to understand risk perception and behaviour." Journal of Risk Research 18(1): 2-20.	The aim is to investigate differences in risk perception and behaviour among different population groups selected by gender, age, country of birth, disability and sexual orientation in the light of general values and vulnerability. The analyses use data from two Swedish national surveys from 2005 to 2008. People with foreign background perceive controlled and dread risks as a greater threat than do native-born people, but there is no difference in behaviour when general values and vulnerability have been controlled for. Compared to women, men rate known and dread risks as lower, but controlled risks as higher. Further, men's behaviour is more risk-oriented and less risk-reducing, and homosexuals and bisexuals are more likely than heterosexuals to report risk behaviour. Compared to previous studies of the so-called White Male Effect carried out in the USA, gender does not play a similar role in Sweden. On the contrary, it seems as if gender is of less importance and that the strength of the association varies depending on type of risk or risk behaviour.

Olofsson, K. L., et al. (2018). "Using Nonprofit Narratives and News Media Framing to Depict Air Pollution in Delhi, India." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(7): 956-972.	How is the air pollution issue in Delhi framed by the news media and narrated by nonprofit organizations? To study news media framing, we employed an inductive approach based on automated text coding of news coverage of the issue. To study nonprofit organization narrations, a deductive approach guided by the Narrative Policy Framework was used to focus on the stories told via online documents as found on nonprofit websites. The findings confirm existing theory and empirical research regarding the leading causes and effects of air pollution; however, perceptions are mixed regarding the government's ability to implement policy. The combined deductive and inductive approaches provide a systematic and multi-method research study for understanding perceptions of air pollution in one of the largest cities in the world. The result is a depiction of the priorities that influence public opinions, political decisions, and eventually public policies.

Oltra, C. and R. Sala (2018). "Perception of risk from air pollution and reported behaviors: a cross-sectional survey study in four cities." Journal of Risk Research 21(7): 869-884.	We investigate how public perceptions of air pollution, risk beliefs and self-reported actions to limit personal exposure to ambient air pollution vary across cities. Our analysis also examines the extent to which a number of individual-level variables are associated to self-protective and information-seeking actions due to bad air quality. Data was collected through a questionnaire survey in four cities with a total sample of 1202 inhabitants. We found a moderate variation in the subjective evaluation of local air pollution between cities, as well as in the levels of annoyance and distress due to air pollution. There was relatively little variation in perceived severity, worry and self-reported actions. No variation was found for self-reported attention to air quality levels and controllability beliefs regarding the risks from air pollution. Preliminary modeling of four self-reported actions suggests that self-reported attention to air quality levels and worry are important predictors of self-protective and information seeking behavior. We conclude that both personal and contextual factors have to be taken into account in order to understand public reactions to outdoor urban air pollution. We discuss the implications in terms of risk and health communication.

Opel, A., et al. (2010). "Food, Culture and the Environment: Communicating About What We Eat." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(3): 251-254.
	
Opt, S. and R. Low (2017). "Dividing and Uniting Through Naming: The Case of North Carolina's Sea-Level-Rise Policy." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(2): 218-230.	Opponents of a proposed sea-level-rise policy in North Carolina, USA, reasoned rhetorically to promote a narrative claiming that the policy supporters' efforts had failed to meet the criteria of "good" science and the American dream expectancy of "progress." The critics worked to hinder policy adoption by naming as "villains" scientists who provided research to support the proposed policy. In addition, the opponents named their own efforts to prevent policy based on "bad" science that would "destroy" the American dream as "heroic." To more effectively respond to such narratives, scientists and policy proponents need to shift away from reporting just climate change "facts" in the attempt to gain stakeholder support for mitigation and adaptation initiatives. They need to move toward reasoning rhetorically to construct narratives that encourage the public to name them as the "heroes" who will achieve the American dream by their actions to mitigate climate-change outcomes.

Oreskes, N. (2017). "Response by Oreskes to "Beyond Counting Climate Consensus"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 731-732.
	
Orihuela, S. B. and A. C. Hageman (2011). "The Virtual Realities of US/Mexico Border Ecologies in Maquilapolis and Sleep Dealer." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(2): 166-186.	This essay explores the confluence of ecology, labor, and gender along the US-Mexico border as they are registered in two recent films from the Global South. This article explores ecological ideology through the representation of racialized and gendered labor in the maquiladora industry along the border. The article proposes an ecotone method of film analysis as a way to work in such a convergence of ecological, transnational, gendered, and technological modes of analysis. Through this dynamic approach, we argue that placing these films in conversation with one another, despite their formalistic differences, reveals the social conditions that enable and naturalize ecological devastation along the US/Mexico border.

Oriordan, T., et al. (1989). "Themes and Tasks of Risk Communication - Report of an International-Conference Held at Kfa Julich." Risk Analysis 9(4): 513-518.
	
Orthia, L. A. (2011). "Antirationalist critique or fifth column of scientism? Challenges from Doctor Who to the mad scientist trope." Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 525-542.	Much of the public understanding of science literature dealing with fictional scientists claims that scientist villains by their nature embody an antiscience critique. I characterize this claim and its founding assumptions as the "mad scientist" trope. I show how scientist villain characters from the science fiction television series Doctor Who undermine the trope via the programme's use of rhetorical strategies similar to Gilbert and Mulkay's empiricist and contingent repertoires, which define and patrol the boundaries between "science" and "non-science." I discuss three such strategies, including the literal framing of scientist villains as "mad." All three strategies exclude the characters from science, relieve science of responsibility for their villainy, and overtly or covertly contribute to the delivery of pro-science messages consistent with rationalist scientism. I focus on scientist villains from the most popular era of Doctor Who, the mid 1970s, when the show embraced the gothic horror genre.

Ortiz-Gomez, T. and A. Ignaciuk (2015). ""Pregnancy and labour cause more deaths than oral contraceptives": The debate on the pill in the Spanish press in the 1960s and 1970s." Public Understanding of Science 24(6): 658-671.	From 1941 to 1978, Franco's regime in Spain banned all contraceptive methods. The pill started circulating in Spain from the 1960s, officially as a drug used in gynaecological therapy. However, in the following decade it was also increasingly used and prescribed as a contraceptive. This paper analyses debates about the contraceptive pill in the Spanish daily newspaper ABC and in two magazines, Blanco y Negro and Triunfo, in the 1960s and 1970s. It concludes that the debate on this contraceptive method was much more heterogeneous than might be expected given the Catholic-conservative character of the dictatorship. The daily press focused on the adverse effects of the drug and magazines concentrated on the ethical and religious aspects of the pill and discussed it in a generally positive light. Male doctors and Catholic authors dominated the debate.

Osman, M., et al. (2018). "The problems of increasing transparency on uncertainty." Public Understanding of Science 27(2): 131-138.	Public regulators (such as European Food Safety Authority, European Medicines Agency, and European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control) are placing increasing demands on scientists to make uncertainties about their evidence transparent to the public. The stated goal is utilitarian, to inform and empower the public and ensure the accountability of policy and decision-making around the use of scientific evidence. However, it is questionable what constitutes uncertainty around the evidence on any given topic, and, while the goal is laudable, we argue the drive to increase transparency on uncertainty of the scientific process specifically does more harm than good, and may not serve the interests of those intended. While highlighting some of the practical implications of making uncertainties transparent using current guidelines, the aim is to discuss what could be done to make it worthwhile for both public and scientists.

Ostman, J. (2014). "The Influence of Media Use on Environmental Engagement: A Political Socialization Approach." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(1): 92-109.	Current research suggests that the media play an important part in informing and engaging citizens in environmental issues. Building on these findings, this study adopts a political socialization approach to citizens' involvement in everyday-life pro-environmental behavior. Multivariate analysis of recent survey data from Swedish adolescents (N = 1148) demonstrates direct as well as indirect relationships between frequency of news media use, talk about environmental issues with parents and peers, and extent of pro-environmental behavior. The findings are consistent with the notion that news media use promotes behavior by raising awareness of environmental issues. The results are also discussed in terms of a citizen-communication framework according to which interpersonal communication translates environmental information gleaned from news sources to adolescents' everyday-life reality, thereby motivating pro-environmental behavior. Future directions for examining causal mechanisms in more detail are discussed.

Otway, H. (1987). "Experts, Risk Communication, and Democracy." Risk Analysis 7(2): 125-129.
	
Otway, H. and B. Wynne (1989). "Risk Communication - Paradigm and Paradox." Risk Analysis 9(2): 141-145.
	
Ouariachi, T., et al. (2017). "Analyzing Climate Change Communication Through Online Games: Development and Application of Validated Criteria." Science Communication 39(1): 10-44.	In search of innovative approaches capable of connecting climate change issues with teenagers, scholars and practitioners have become interested in harnessing the potential of gaming for advancing climate change communication. This article aims to propose a set of criteria, validated by experts through the Delphi method, by which to analyze communicative features of online climate change games. The use of the criteria is illustrated with an evaluation of a sample of Spanish games to which we apply qualitative content analysis, narratology, and ludology techniques. Our findings reveal some positive communicative trends in terms of narratives, contents, and gameplay.

Overskaug, K., et al. (2014). "The "Intelligent Layman" and Science Communication in Norwegian Public Places." Science Communication 36(3): 388-395.	When the oldest research enterprise in Norway, the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and Letters, was founded in 1760 in the city of Trondheim, the cofounder Johan Gunnerus (1718-1773) said that one objective was to impart sciences to the "intelligent layman"-the man and woman in the street. A museum, a journal, a library, a botanical garden, and funding for research and dissemination are central means employed in this work. Lecturers have also been taking their audience to an untraditional arena, an urban or a rural setting, where they lecture on a topic of current interest using the location as a backdrop. Their audience does not necessarily have prior knowledge of the topic, and the lecturers lacks the safety net that an auditorium represents. The setting requires pedagogical improvement and also encourages discussions and the posing of questions. Has the objective to educate the public been attained?

Owens, T. (2011). "Madame Curie above the fold: Divergent perspectives on Curie's visit to the United States in the American press." Science Communication 33(1): 98-119.	On May 11, 1921, the world's most famous female scientist, Marie Curie, began a 10-week tour of the United States. Curie's biographers have argued that instead of portraying Curie as a scientist, the American press' emphasis on Curie's role as a mother, widow, and healer created a mythic Curie with traditional female virtues that served to make this unconventional woman less threatening to traditional values. This article complicates that approach by considering coverage outside the daily press, such as magazines, which emphasized Curie's accomplishments as a scientist. Tracing the development of Curie's story in the press, the article offers insight into the way coverage of Curie's trip both shaped and was shaped by notions of women's place in science and American society.

Ozen, H. (2014). "Overcoming Environmental Challenges by Antagonizing Environmental Protesters: The Turkish Government Discourse against Anti-hydroelectric Power Plants Movements." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(4): 433-451.	Due to the growing public importance of environmental concerns in the contemporary world, governments that prioritize economic interests over environmental concerns may try to counter environmental challenges not by openly declaring that they do not want to consider environmental demands, but by attempting to antagonize the protesters who voice such demands. This essay explores such a governmental response by analyzing the discourse articulated by the Turkish Government against movements that oppose the construction of hydroelectric power plants (HEPPs) on environmental grounds. In particular, the analysis focuses on how HEPPs, environmental claims and demands of movements, and environmental protesters are represented within the pro-HEPP discourse, and in what ways these representations appeal to popular perceptions. It is demonstrated that the discourse of the government attempts to counter the challenges of protesters by establishing an antagonist relation between the protesters and society by representing HEPPs as crucial for the economic development and, therefore, as compatible with the interests of society as a whole. Moreover, it also attempts to achieve this through portraying the protesters as criminals and terrorists who block the economic development of the country and pose significant threats to the commonwealth, not for legitimate environmental concerns but for some dubious motives and incentives. It is concluded that, with this approach, the government has managed to gain popular consent not only for the construction of HEPPs, but also for the repression of such movements.

Paden, M. (2006). "A left-hand turn around the world: Chasing the mystery and meaning of all things southpaw." Science Communication 28(1): 154-156.
	
Painter, J. and N. T. Gavin (2016). "Climate Skepticism in British Newspapers, 2007-2011." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(4): 432-452.	Climate skepticism in the UK media has not been a major focus of recent research. This paper aims to help fill the gap by looking at the incidence of skeptical voices in UK newspapers across three periods: 2007, 2009/2010, and 2010/2011. After analyzing more than 3200 articles, it finds that skeptical voices increased their presence markedly across all newspapers and all types of articles in the second period, and maintained a significant presence in many in the third. Uncontested skeptical voices were particularly prevalent in opinion pieces and editorials in right-leaning newspapers in the second. It also finds that skeptical voices or opinions were more likely to be included in pieces written by in-house non-specialist columnists than by environment editors or correspondents. The negative implications of the results for public understanding and the quality of public debate are then explored.

Paisley, W. J. (1998). "Scientific literacy and the competition for public attention and understanding." Science Communication 20(1): 70-80.	Specialized knowledge with a claim on the public's attention and understanding can be characterized as topical literacy. Among such literacies, scientific literacy has recently captured significant attention. The author describes three popular perspectives on scientific literacy-science content, how science works, and the impact of science on society-and analyzes their rationales and appropriateness for the task at hand.

Pal, M. and J. J. Jenkins (2014). "Reimagining Sustainability: An Interrogation of the Corporate Knights' Global 100." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(3): 388-405.	This study examines sustainability reports of the Corporate Knights' "Global 100 Most Sustainable Companies in the World" in order to examine if and how they have been affected by Arturo Escobar's original critique of sustainable development (SD). Via thematic analysis, the study reveals that these corporations have circumvented Escobar's assessment by emphasizing sustainability as corporate growth and profit, without addressing some of the most prominent social concerns in our world today. The goal of this study was to trigger new ways of imagining SD, which speak to issues of equality and justice. Thus, it advances a view of sustainability that is driven by the logic of nature rather than by the logic of market. This study also suggests that researchers and practitioners should define praxis through engagement with local communities rather than through the traditional top-down approaches to sustainability.

Palen, J. A. (1999). "Objectivity as independence - Creating the society of environmental journalists, 1989-1997." Science Communication 21(2): 156-171.	After its founding in the United States in 1989, the Society of Environmental Journalists (SEJ) grew rapidly, despite self-imposed limits put in place to protect what members believed to be an important journalistic virtue-independence of vested interests. SEJ's stand on this issue raised numerous conflicts within the organization. In working out the conflicts, SEJ contributed to a clearer definition of the practice of environmental journalism in the United States in a time of rapid change in the field. Its experience demonstrated the continuing, although limited, utility of journalistic objectivity as a standard around which practitioners could organize themselves.

Paliewicz, N. S. (2018). "The Country, the City, and the Corporation: Rio Tinto Kennecott and the Materiality of Corporate Rhetoric." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(6): 744-762.	Contributing to extant discourses about corporate environmental advocacy, this paper argues that corporations can embed discursive rhetorical strategies in material places and spaces. This argument contributes to environmental communication by bridging divisions between discursive and materialist approaches to corporate rhetoric. Corporate materiality is realized in the study of Rio Tinto Kennecott (RTK) at places of corporate community where RTK enunciates a dominant environmental discourse about the necessity of the Bingham Canyon Mine through strategies such as the technological shell game, the hypocrite's trap, and corporate heterotopia, which are made manifest materially alongside cultural values such as epistemic trust, technological progress, community, and home. Using participatory critical rhetoric as a methodology, I analyse RTK's material rhetoric at the Natural History Museum of Utah, the Rio Tinto Soccer Stadium, and the Daybreak suburban community. This case study reveals that corporations are assemblages that assert many different, and sometimes competing, arguments that can deflect environmental criticism, materially.

Pallett, H. (2015). "Public Participation Organizations and Open Policy: A Constitutional Moment for British Democracy?" Science Communication 37(6): 769-794.	This article builds on work in Science and Technology Studies and cognate disciplines concerning the institutionalization of public engagement and participation practices. It describes and analyses ethnographic qualitative research into one organization of participation, the UK government-funded Sciencewise program. Sciencewise's interactions with broader political developments are explored, including the emergence of open policy as a key policy object in the UK context. The article considers what the new imaginary of openness means for institutionalized forms of public participation in science policymaking, asking whether this is illustrative of a constitutional moment in relations between society and science policymaking.

Palma-Oliveira, J. M., et al. (2018). "Community-Driven Hypothesis Testing: A Solution for the Tragedy of the Anticommons." Risk Analysis 38(3): 620-634.	Shared ownership of property and resources is a longstanding challenge throughout history that has been amplifying with the increasing development of industrial and postindustrial societies. Where governments, project planners, and commercial developers seek to develop new infrastructure, industrial projects, and various other land-and resource-intensive tasks, veto power shared by various local stakeholders can complicate or halt progress. Risk communication has been used as an attempt to address stakeholder concerns in these contexts, but has demonstrated shortcomings. These coordination failures between project planners and stakeholders can be described as a specific kind of social dilemma that we describe as the tragedy of the anticommons. To overcome such dilemmas, we demonstrate how a two-step process can directly address public mistrust of project planners and public perceptions of limited decision-making authority. This approach is examined via two separate empirical field experiments in Portugal and Tunisia, where public resistance and anticommons problems threatened to derail emerging industrial projects. In both applications, an intervention is undertaken to address initial public resistance to such projects, where specific public stakeholders and project sponsors collectively engaged in a hypothesis-testing process to identify and assess human and environmental health risks associated with proposed industrial facilities. These field experiments indicate that a rigorous attempt to address public mistrust and perceptions of power imbalances and change the pay-off structure of the given dilemma may help overcome such anticommons problems in specific cases, and may potentially generate enthusiasm and support for such projects by local publics moving forward.

Palmer, A. W. (2000). "Primitives among us - The paradox of the Tasaday and other "lost tribes." Science Communication 21(3): 223-243.	Controversy over the authenticity of the primitive Tasaday tribe discovered in the Philippines in 1971, as well as the selective portrayal of other indigenous groups like the Yanomami in the Amazon, the !Kung San of South Africa, and the "hoaxing" of Margaret Mead in Samoa, point to the need to examine mass media portrayals of anthropological field studies. Portrayals of so-called lost tribes are examined in this article in terms of anthropologists' struggle with their discipline's colonial past and the popularity of primitivity as a theme in global media discourse in which characteristics of ethnic cultures are unfairly reduced to a single dimension.

Palmer, C. G. S. (1996). "Risk perception: An empirical study of the relationship between worldview and the risk construct." Risk Analysis 16(5): 717-723.	This study empirically assesses the performance of Holtgrave and Weber's Simplified Conjoint Expected Risk (SCER) model for financial and health stimuli in 3 groups of ''worldview holders''-12 hierarchists, 10 individualists, and 16 egalitarians-as described by cultural theory. The SCER model performed well, however, distinctive patterns of model variable selection appeared within each group. Interestingly, the pattern of variable selection paralleled cultural theory's descriptions of each worldview. Differences in the mean perceived risk of activities also tended to correspond to predictions made by cultural theory. Results suggest two mechanisms to explain differences in perceived risk among worldviews: (i) same model variables are evaluated, but given different weight; (ii) different variables are evaluated. Identifying the relevant mechanism for a given situation may enhance the effectiveness of risk communication.

Palmer, S. E. and R. A. Schibeci (2014). "What conceptions of science communication are espoused by science research funding bodies?" Public Understanding of Science 23(5): 511-527.	We examine the conceptions of science communication, especially in relation to "public engagement with science" (PES), evident in the literature and websites of science research funding bodies in Europe, North America, South America, Asia and Oceania, and Africa. The analysis uses a fourfold classification of science communication to situate these conceptions: professional, deficit, consultative and deliberative. We find that all bodies engage in professional communication (within the research community); however, engagement with the broader community is variable. Deficit (information dissemination) models still prevail but there is evidence of movement towards more deliberative, participatory models.

Pandora, K. (2008). "Archaeology is a Brand! The Meaning of Archaeology in Contemporary Popular Culture." Public Understanding of Science 17(4): 507-508.
	
Papineau, J. W. and L. Deacon (2017). "Fort McMurray and the Canadian Oil Sands: Local Coverage of National Importance." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(5): 593-608.	Understanding resource-based communities (RBCs) as potential casualties of Canada's economic proclivity towards resource extraction projects may help us to generate political support for these communities at both local and national scales. The media has a critical role to play in promoting the development of this type of political discourse. This study examines how traditional print media coverage affects Canadians' perceptions of the Athabasca oil sands. A quantitative media analysis examines scope and thematic content of articles appearing in major Canadian newspapers between 2003 and 2013. We find that most coverage concerning the Athabasca oil sands over this period appears predominantly in western Canadian newspapers, with coverage primarily focusing on specific events. We argue that this geographic disparity in coverage does not provide Canadians with the adequate coverage necessary to develop an informed opinion on what the implications of ongoing oil sands development are at both a local and a national scale.

Parales-Quenza, C. J. (2004). "Preferences need no inferences, once again: germinal elements in the public perceptions of genetically modified foods in Colombia." Public Understanding of Science 13(2): 131-153.	This paper explores the public perceptions of genetically modified foods in Colombia in a phase considered germinal: the topic was too novel at the time of research. The analysis covers media, informal conversations, and the word associations made by a sample of residents in the city of Bogota. The results show that the public capability of associating with the topic, even intuitively, is due to the availability of cultural themes, the primary categories that help conceptual elaborations, and the construction of common-sense theories. Three themes are proposed: natural/artificial, tradition/change, and health/disease. It is argued that cultural themes are not only cognitive, but also affectively laden entities, which explains the evaluative force expressed by social beliefs. Acknowledging the relevance of the non-attitude thesis, the author suggests that people associate novel objects with latent cultural meanings, explaining why words, images, and metaphors are readily available in elaborating social knowledge.

Pardo, R. and F. Calvo (2002). "Attitudes toward science among the European public: a methodological analysis." Public Understanding of Science 11(2): 155-195.	Over the past decade, several influential papers examining the relationship between scientific knowledge and attitudes toward science have been published. The 1992 Eurobarometer has been the preferred source of data for analysis, and a number of suggestive conclusions regarding the extent and nature of the links between knowledge and attitudes have been proposed. Summated scales were built through principal component analysis of the attitudinal items and reliability analysis, but little attention has been paid to the content of the attitudinal items and to the metric and conceptual weaknesses of the scales. A more parsimonious revision of the data, carried out here, shows that the measures used are fuzzy and, as a consequence, the empirical support for some published results is very limited. We suggest that more theoretical effort should be devoted to the design of questionnaires and to the combined use of statistical exploratory techniques and qualitative analysis in the interpretation of the data.

Pardo, R. and F. Calvo (2004). "The cognitive dimension of public perceptions of science: methodological issues." Public Understanding of Science 13(3): 203-227.	The cognitive dimension of public perceptions of science is a central component of the interdisciplinary field devoted to their study. The subset of this dimension that has received the most attention is the one known as scientific literacy (SL), and particularly scientific knowledge of the "know-what" type. People's appropriation of scientific theories of the world and also of the inner workings of scientific practice is of interest in itself and also for its role in explaining-in interaction with other variables-public attitudes toward science. Despite its significance, the understanding of science has received progressively less attention since the late 1990s. This paper reviews the substantive characteristics and formal properties of the scale of SL most widely used in the literature, which has been constructed on the basis of Eurobarometer measurements. It considers a number of steps, such as content, item analysis, and differential reliability, both for the total sample and for different nations and social groups, that are usually omitted in the literature. This new analysis shows that the standard SL test barely achieves satisfactory metric properties and that although it captures major (but not fine-grained) differences in SL by nation and sociodemographic groups, it is in need of significant theoretical and formal improvements. Our analysis also shows that a well-known thesis in the literature, the so-called "knowledge-ignorance paradox," rests on a statistical misinterpretation of the data.

Pardo, R. and F. Calvo (2006). "Mapping perceptions of science in end-of-century Europe." Science Communication 28(1): 3-46.	This article offers an alternative to the dominant approach for analyzing public perceptions of science. The authors seek first to clarify to what extent the public at large holds defined attitudes toward science, proposing an "index of cognitive and evaluative distance." They then present a map of perceptions of science in end-of-century Europe based on correspondence analysis, which displays some of the most salient elements of how science was appropriated in the culture of the time. The map shows that shared social and cognitive characteristics across nations act as unifying forces in public perceptions of science, while the nation variable conserves important singularities. Knowledge of science plays a very significant role in accounting for differences in value judgments about science. "Reservations," not "promise" items, divide the perceptions of different social groups, suggesting that more weight should be given to the former in future studies.

Pardo, R. and F. Calvo (2008). "Attitudes toward embryo research, worldviews, and the moral status of the embryo frame." Science Communication 30(1): 8-47.	Embryo research for obtaining stem cells is an attitudinal object embedded in a complex space of high expectations for reaching desirable goals, and also of strong moral reservations about the utilization and production of human embryos for research ends. An explanatory model of public attitudes to embryo research is offered here, composed of general variables and worldviews (expectations about scientific-technological advances, reservations to science, trust in scientists, religiosity, gender) and highly specific ones (one evaluative, views on "the moral status of the embryo," and the other of a cognitive nature, "biological literacy"). A key factor in accepting or rejecting this line of research is the current, de facto, competition between biological science and moral and religious creeds in shaping a frame or image of the moral status of the embryo, either as a pure biological entity or, alternatively, as an actual or potential human being entitled to special protection.

Park, H. J. (2001). "The creation-evolution debate: carving creationism in the public mind." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 173-186.	Although it has few genuinely new arguments, the revived creationism discussion (particularly that based on the young-earth creationism) in America since the 1960s significantly differs from the early 1920s anti-evolution crusade in many ways, including its strategy, organizational base, and practice of public debates. The public debates in particular became a distinctive promotional activity to spread creationism. Debates, mostly held on university campuses, have brought creationists publicity and respectability, and made a significant contribution to the advancement of the movement. I will discuss how this new method of spreading creationism started, how creationists managed to manipulate the debate to serve their own cause, and how evolution defenders responded to this challenge. Creationists deliberately used the debate as a vehicle to change public perception of their image from one of backwoods ignorance associated with the old anti-evolution crusade to a respectable alternative to evolution. The popular success of this tactic explains, in part, the surprising popularity of strict creationism in American society.

Park, J., et al. (2009). "The Korean press and Hwang's fraud." Public Understanding of Science 18(6): 653-669.	This case study explores why South Korean journalists overlooked allegations of scientific misconduct against South Korean scientist Dr. Woo Suk Hwang and even indirectly defended him in 2005-6. Nineteen journalists, who covered Hwang's story for five of South Korea's leading daily newspapers, were interviewed. The interviewees added insights about the news coverage of the Hwang scandal not identified in previous literature, such as the difficulties among journalists to suspend their personal disbelief about the criticisms and evidence against Hwang. The findings suggest the news judgments that occurred in Korean newsrooms during the Hwang scandal reflected a socially constructed process of negotiation among news media professionals and between journalists and scientists, The findings also suggest it may be best to consider journalistic mores within a multidimensional framework that includes journalistic perceptions of socio-cultural norms, internal newsroom standards for evidence, newsroom competence and training, normative journalism ethics, news gathering techniques, perceived dissonance and professed risk avoidance.

Park, R. L. (1994). "Is Science the God That Failed - the Smithsonian-Institution Exhibition on Science in American Life." Science Communication 16(2): 206-210.
	
Park, W. G. and J. C. Ginarte (1996). "Intellectual property rights in a North-South economic context." Science Communication 17(3): 379-387.	There is a need for strong intellectual property rights in less developed countries, particularly for production-related innovations. Intellectual property protection can solve market failure problems and through a policy ''credibility'' effect, encourage innovations and international technology diffusion. The article outlines the need for such protection and critiques some of the arguments for making an exception to strong protection in less developed countries.

Parkin, R. T. and J. M. Balbus (2000). "Variations in concepts of "susceptibility" in risk assessment." Risk Analysis 20(5): 603-611.	The Food Quality Protection Act and the 1996 amendments to the Safe Drinking Water Act are two of the most recent examples of legislation calling for protection of susceptible subpopulations. As regulatory deadlines draw nearer, controversies in scientific and policy arenas increase about incorporating susceptibility in risk assessment. The previously accepted working definition of "susceptibility" has already been called into question. Part of the controversy results from different disciplines conceiving of susceptibility in different ways. Understanding the conceptual differences embodied within definitions can provide a basis on which a revised working definition may be developed across disciplines. The purposes of this article are to describe the varying definitions of susceptibility, discuss the differing concepts incorporated in the definitions, and recommend ways in which susceptibility may be defined and framed to meet current risk assessment needs. The present analysis of definitions from the fields of ecology, biology, engineering, medicine, epidemiology, and toxicology revealed different emphases that relate to the underlying perspectives and methods of each field. It is likely that susceptibility will need to be formally defined for public policy purposes, but until that time, the use of more informal communication and decision-making processes is suggested to develop and utilize a new working consensus on the definition of susceptibility.

Parks, J. M. and K. S. Theobald (2013). "Public engagement with information on renewable energy developments: The case of single, semi-urban wind turbines." Public Understanding of Science 22(1): 49-64.	This paper explores perceptions of public engagement with information on renewable energy developments. It draws on a case study of proposals by a major supermarket chain to construct single wind turbines in two semi-urban locations in the UK, analysing data from interviews with key actors in the planning process and focus groups with local residents. The paper concludes that key actors often had high expectations of how local people should engage with information, and sometimes implied that members of the public who were incapable of filtering or processing information in an organised or targeted fashion had no productive role to play in the planning process. It shows how the specific nature of the proposals (single wind turbines in semi-urban locations proposed by a commercial private sector developer) shaped local residents' information needs and concerns in a way that challenged key actors' expectations of how the public should engage with information.

Parks, P. and B. Takahashi (2016). "From Apes to Whistleblowers: How Scientists Inform, Defend, and Excite in Newspaper Op-Eds." Science Communication 38(3): 275-302.	Scientists are being called upon to communicate more clearly, strategically, and frequently with the public. An understudied, but influential, outreach method is writing newspaper op-ed commentaries. Using speech act theory as a framework, this qualitative analysis of the objectives and strategies scientists enact when writing op-eds found that writers focus on informing, defending, and exciting about science through personal stories, accessible descriptions of research, and references to history and popular culture. This study's application of speech act theory to empirically derived objectives expressed by scientists and enacted in a specific mode of communication helps advance science communication beyond deficit-oriented models toward styles of outreach that take the audience's interpretive agency into account.

Parnaby, P. (2011). "Health and finance: exploring the parallels between health care delivery and professional financial planning." Journal of Risk Research 14(10): 1191-1205.	This article compares the role of risk and uncertainty discourse across two rather disparate areas of expertise: personal financial planning and health care delivery. On the basis of 42 semi-structured interviews and eight recorded meetings between planners and their clients, as well as a comprehensive review of extant health literature, it is argued that three points of convergence - the discursive management of uncertainty, the temporalization of risk, and the use of images offer a modicum of certainty which functions ultimately to legitimize expertise and facilitate courses of remedial action while simultaneously assuaging laypeople's existential anxieties. The article concludes with a number of reflections on the importance of agency and trust.

Parrott, R. (2003). "Communicating health and illness." Public Understanding of Science 12(4): 441-442.
	
Parsons, W. (2001). "Scientists and politicians: the need to communicate." Public Understanding of Science 10(3): 307-318.	This paper summarizes the rationale for identifying politicians as an important target audience for public understanding of science activities. It describes and provides evaluation information about an Australian program that provides science information to politicians. We conclude that information for politicians must address their electorate and personal interests; that the underlying message should be that research is about wealth generation; that information must be provided on politicians' terms (quickly, with an awareness of political and legislative cycles, without jargon and well substantiated); and that there are no quick solutions to raising awareness of science and technology.

Pasek, J. (2018). "It's not my consensus: Motivated reasoning and the sources of scientific illiteracy." Public Understanding of Science 27(7): 787-806.	Individuals who provide incorrect answers to scientific knowledge questions have long been considered scientifically illiterate. Yet, increasing evidence suggests that motivated reasoning, rather than ignorance, may explain many of these incorrect answers. This article uses novel survey measures to assess two processes by which motivated reasoning might lead to incorrect personal beliefs: motivated individuals may fail to identify the presence of a scientific consensus on some issue or they may recognize a consensus while questioning its veracity. Simultaneously looking at perceptions of what most scientists say and personal beliefs, this study reveals that religiosity and partisanship moderate the extent to which Americans identify scientific consensuses and assert beliefs that contradict their perceptions of consensus. Although these pathways predict the scope of disagreement with science for each of 11 issues, the relative prevalence of each process depends on both the scientific issue and motivational pathway under examination.

Pate-Cornell, E. (2002). "Fusion of intelligence information: A Bayesian approach." Risk Analysis 22(3): 445-454.	The attack that occurred on September It. 2001 was. in the end, the result of a failure to detect and prevent the terrorist operations that hit the United States. The U.S. government thus faces at this time the daunting tasks of first, drastically increasing its ability to obtain and interpret different types of signals of impending terrorist attacks with sufficient lead time and accuracy, and second, improving its ability to react effectively. One of the main challenges is the fusion of information, from different sources (U.S. or foreign), and of different types (electronic signals, human intelligence. etc.). Fusion thus involves two very distinct and separate issues: communications, i.e., ensuring that the different U.S. and foreign intelligence agencies communicate all relevant and accurate information in a timely fashion and, perhaps more difficult, merging the content of signals, some "sharp" and some "fuzzy," some dependent and some independent into useful information. The focus of this article is on the latter issue, and on the use of the results. In this article, I present a classic probabilistic Bayesian model sometimes used in engineering risk analysis, which can be helpful in the fusion of information because it allows computation of the posterior probability of an event given its prior probability (before the signal is observed) and the quality of the signal characterized by the probabilities of false positive and false negative. Experience suggests that the nature of these errors has been sometimes misunderstood therefore, I discuss the validity of several possible definitions.

Pate-Cornell, E. and L. A. Cox (2014). "Improving Risk Management: From Lame Excuses to Principled Practice." Risk Analysis 34(7): 1228-1239.	The three classic pillars of risk analysis are risk assessment (how big is the risk and how sure can we be?), risk management (what shall we do about it?), and risk communication (what shall we say about it, to whom, when, and how?). We propose two complements as important parts of these three bases: risk attribution (who or what addressable conditions actually caused an accident or loss?) and learning from experience about risk reduction (what works, and how well?). Failures in complex systems usually evoke blame, often with insufficient attention to root causes of failure, including some aspects of the situation, design decisions, or social norms and culture. Focusing on blame, however, can inhibit effective learning, instead eliciting excuses to deflect attention and perceived culpability. Productive understanding of what went wrong, and how to do better, thus requires moving past recrimination and excuses. This article identifies common blame-shifting "lame excuses" for poor risk management. These generally contribute little to effective improvements and may leave real risks and preventable causes unaddressed. We propose principles from risk and decision sciences and organizational design to improve results. These start with organizational leadership. More specifically, they include: deliberate testing and learning-especially from near-misses and accident precursors; careful causal analysis of accidents; risk quantification; candid expression of uncertainties about costs and benefits of risk-reduction options; optimization of tradeoffs between gathering additional information and immediate action; promotion of safety culture; and mindful allocation of people, responsibilities, and resources to reduce risks. We propose that these principles provide sound foundations for improving successful risk management.

Patra, D. (2013). "Nanoscience, nanotechnology, or nanotechnoscience: Perceptions of Indian nanoresearchers." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 590-605.	What is nanotechnoscience? What are the characteristic features of nanotechnoscience? How do the practicing scientists and engineers, that is, practitioners label their work? How do they see the relationship between science and technology given the fast emerging research area of nanoscience and nanotechnology? Do they still celebrate the differences between these two? Is the relationship between them undergoing a change? Although there are a few scholarly articles available on understanding the concept of nanotechnoscience, there is almost no empirical study conducted so far to understand the perspectives of the practitioners. This paper, therefore, focuses on understanding the concept and characteristic features of nanotechnoscience deriving from an in-depth interview-based empirical study among 58 practitioners. The study found about 10 characteristic features of technoscience that were reflected in the research work and perspectives of the practitioners. The technoscientific features drawn from this study could be applied to other emerging technoscience areas.

Patton, D. E. (1994). "The Nas Risk Paradigm as a Medium for Communication." Risk Analysis 14(3): 375-378.	Many journalists, public interest groups and other recipients of risk assessment information are familiar with the National Academy of Sciences risk assessment paradigm. From time to time, paradigm concepts appear in news features or community group discussions on environmental issues. With knowledge of the paradigm common to scientists, journalists, and other interested parties, the paradigm is a potentially important medium for communication between risk scientists, journalists, and the public. Specifically, the paradigm offers widely-accepted organizing principles for presenting risk information, a common language for addressing a variety of issues and concepts, and a flexible analytical system that accommodates the diversity of scientific information and policy perspectives that characterize the risk assessment process. In addition, the paradigm outlines important relationships and distinctions between risk assessment and risk management. Informed and creative use of these features of the paradigm can guide and simplify interviews between journalists or community groups and their expert sources, clarify presentation of risk information, and promote collaboration between risk scientists, journalists, and others to assure complete, objective and fair comment on risk issues of interest to the public.

Patton, M. Q. (1998). "The challenges of diversity in evaluation - Narrow versus expansive perspectives." Science Communication 20(1): 148-164.	As program evaluation has developed over the last twenty years into a viable profession, its central challenge has become to define what it means to be an evaluator This debate is fueled less by traditional divisions between academic and service-related professionals, or disagreements over methodologies, than by sharply different visions of the evaluator's moral and political role, derived from the profession's historic roofs in principles of social justice and concern for individual rights.

Paveglio, T., et al. (2009). "Just Blowing Smoke? Residents' Social Construction of Communication about Wildfire." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(1): 76-94.	This study uses social constructionism as a basis for understanding the effectiveness of communication about wildfire risk between agency officials and wildland-urban interface (WUI) residents. Risk communication literature demonstrates a well-documented difference in the way land managers and stakeholders conceptualize risk. This is especially true of fire because management of these hazards have changed so drastically in past decades; fire managers have typically struggled to clearly articulate the current management policy to the public or integrate their specific knowledge in the risk management process. This study contributes to an understanding of how WUI residents construct communication about wildland fire and agency effectiveness in communicating the new era of fire inclusion. Specifically, we explore the personal and professional sources of information residents' use to understand their fire risk and the subjects they would like more information about. We also explore the continued viability of Smokey Bear, the most enduring symbol of fire management.

Paveglio, T. B., et al. (2017). "Re-conceptualizing community in risk research." Journal of Risk Research 20(7): 931-951.	Community is an important concept for determining the factors that influence peoples' perceptions of and actions surrounding risk. However, there are multiple and conflicting definitions for the concept of community and scholars operationalize it in various ways. In this paper, we argue for a renewed focus on community as a guiding consideration in discussions of risk management and the related concepts of resilience, vulnerability, and adaptive capacity. We outline classic and current conceptions of community to articulate how its conceptualization in ongoing risk research might lead to different outcomes, foci, or recommendations about collective adaptation. This includes a discussion of how historic and emerging methodological approaches for studying risk make implicit choices about what community is or how it influences collective response. We close by providing a set of potential axioms that can help researchers better integrate the complexity of community into studies of risk and understand how populations respond to it. Better integrating community into studies of risk could promote policies and communication that are tailored to the unique local context of diverse populations. Such tailoring is more likely to promote adoption of risk mitigations among local populations and perpetuate adaptation as a part of local culture. We contend that a more holistic and systematic approach to documenting local context better encompasses the variable influences that community can have on collective ability to respond to risks.

Pavone, V., et al. (2018). "Beyond the security paradox: Ten criteria for a socially informed security policy." Public Understanding of Science 27(6): 638-654.	This article investigates the normative and procedural criteria adopted by European citizens to assess the acceptability of surveillance-oriented security technologies. It draws on qualitative data gathered at 12 citizen summits in nine European countries. The analysis identifies 10 criteria, generated by citizens themselves, for a socially informed security policy. These criteria not only reveal the conditions, purposes and operation rules that would make current European security policies and technologies more consistent with citizens' priorities. They also cast light on an interesting paradox: although people feel safe in their daily lives, they believe security could, and should, be improved.

Pavone, V. and S. Degli Esposti (2012). "Public assessment of new surveillance-oriented security technologies: Beyond the trade-off between privacy and security." Public Understanding of Science 21(5): 556-572.	As surveillance-oriented security technologies (SOSTs) are considered security enhancing but also privacy infringing, citizens are expected to trade part of their privacy for higher security. Drawing from the PRISE project, this study casts some light on how citizens actually assess SOSTs through a combined analysis of focus groups and survey data. First, the outcomes suggest that people did not assess SOSTs in abstract terms but in relation to the specific institutional and social context of implementation. Second, from this embedded viewpoint, citizens either expressed concern about government's surveillance intentions and considered SOSTs mainly as privacy infringing, or trusted political institutions and believed that SOSTs effectively enhanced their security. None of them, however, seemed to trade privacy for security because concerned citizens saw their privacy being infringed without having their security enhanced, whilst trusting citizens saw their security being increased without their privacy being affected.

Pearce, W., et al. (2017). "A Reply to Cook and Oreskes on Climate Science Consensus Messaging." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 736-739.
	
Pearce, W., et al. (2017). "Beyond Counting Climate Consensus." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 723-730.	Several studies have been using quantified consensus within climate science as an argument to foster climate policy. Recent efforts to communicate such scientific consensus attained a high public profile but it is doubtful if they can be regarded successful. We argue that repeated efforts to shore up the scientific consensus on minimalist claims such as humans cause global warming are distractions from more urgent matters of knowledge, values, policy framing and public engagement. Such efforts to force policy progress through communicating scientific consensus misunderstand the relationship between scientific knowledge, publics and policymakers. More important is to focus on genuinely controversial issues within climate policy debates where expertise might play a facilitating role. Mobilizing expertise in policy debates calls for judgment, context and attention to diversity, rather than deferring to formal quantifications of narrowly scientific claims.

Pearson, A. R. and J. P. Schuldt (2015). "Bridging Climate Communication Divides: Beyond the Partisan Gap." Science Communication 37(6): 805-812.	Social divides on climate change are often attributed to political factors, but new psychological research points to a wide range of group influences beyond politics that shape public opinion on climate change. We highlight two commonly overlooked sources of influence that represent key underutilized leverage points for public outreach: (1) the roles of racial, ethnic, and cultural identities and (2) the power of social perceptions (i.e., meta-beliefs) in mobilizing public action. This research points to an urgent need to broaden how scientists, policymakers, and the media think about public engagement and consensus building in the domain of climate change.

Pearson, G. (2001). "The participation of scientists in public understanding of science activities: the policy and practice of the UK Research Councils." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 121-137.	Participation of scientists in public understanding of science (PUS) activity has frequently been encouraged by appeals to the notion of duty. This paper reviews the schemes of five of the U.K. Scientific Research Councils that encourage their scientists to get involved in PUS activity. The success of such schemes is measured by the number of scientists participating and the way in which this activity is monitored. This paper compares and contrasts the different strategies used and gives comparative data on the Councils' expenditure on PUS activity. The results suggest an uncomfortable gap between the formal policy of the Research Councils and their practices on the ground. While the involvement of practicing scientists is an important element of the Research Councils' PUS program, the work reported here raises questions about the desirability and feasibility of the notion that PUS involvement should be an obligation for all research scientists.

Pearson, G., et al. (1997). "Scientists and the public understanding of science." Public Understanding of Science 6(3): 279-289.	This paper discusses the attitudes and opinions of research scientists and engineers to taking part in public understanding of science activities. A survey was carried out at an event in set95 (the UK's 1995 National Week of Science, Engineering and Technology), which involved 168 scientists from the University of Bristol, UK, taking their research work into a shopping mall in Bristol for two days. All participating scientists and engineers were asked to complete a written questionnaire shortly after the event and then at least one participant from each display was contacted seven months later for telephone interview. The results show that while most of the scientists took part because they were told to by senior colleagues, after the event almost all (94 per cent) wanted to take part again mainly because they had found the experience enjoyable. Despite the demands of time and organization, individuals benefited from taking part; participants felt it improved their presentation skills and enhanced morale. They regarded the exhibition as good for communication skills training and did not want formal training for the event. The exhibition was also valued as a team-building exercise both within individual departments and across the University.

Pechar, E., et al. (2018). "Beyond Political Ideology: The Impact of Attitudes Towards Government and Corporations on Trust in Science." Science Communication 40(3): 291-313.	Understanding public distrust of science is both theoretically and practically important. While previous research has focused on the association between political ideology and trust in science, it is at best an inconsistent predictor. This study demonstrates that two dimensions of political ideology-attitudes towards governments and corporations-can more precisely predict trust in science across issues. Using a survey in the United States and Germany on the science of climate change and genetically modified foods, we find that an individual's trust in science varies across issues and that attitudes towards government and corporations are important predictors of this trust.

Peddie, D. (2014). "Public Engagement and Emerging Technologies." Public Understanding of Science 23(4): 489-489.
	
Pedelty, M. (2015). "Environmental communication and the public sphere." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(1): 139-142.
	
Peeples, J. (2011). "Toxic Sublime: Imaging Contaminated Landscapes." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(4): 373-392.	This essay attempts to address the lack of critical analyses of images of toxins by examining the photography of landscape artists whose goal is to create a presence for contaminated sites. Imaging toxicity is no simple task as many pollutants are invisible and sites of contamination are concealed, especially for those of privilege. Contemporary artists who attempt this challenge are often criticized that the beauty of their images obfuscates the health and environmental risk of the polluted sites they photograph. In response, this essay introduces the concept of the toxic sublime as a means of analyzing the tensions arising from visual representations of environmental contamination: beauty and ugliness, magnitude and insignificance, the known and the unknown, inhabitation and desolation, security and risk. The essay charts the evolution of the sublime in the US, describing how it has evolved from sites of nature to sites of technology to human damaged landscapes, some of which produce a toxic sublime. Through a close examination of Manufactured Landscapes, a twenty-five year retrospective of the images of noted environmental photographer Edward Burtynsky, this essay extends our understanding of the invention of the sublime in images, reconceptualizes the sublime response to contaminated places, as well as adding to our knowledge of how visual texts function to encourage contemplation of the viewers' position within a polluted world.

Peeples, J. (2013). "Imaging Toxins." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(2): 191-210.	This essay examines how toxins are visually represented in news and popular media. More specifically, it analyzes the function of visual narratives, identity, place, and uncertainty in the construction of the controversial toxicant Agent Orange, a defoliant used by the US military during the Vietnam War to reduce jungle cover and destroy cropland causing devastating health and environmental effects. Toxins present an interesting challenge for visual construction in that they are often invisible and banal in their esthetics. The essay concludes with five observations for understanding the relationship between images and toxins.

Peeples, J. A., et al. (2008). "Arguments For What No One Wants: The Narratives of Waste Storage Proponents." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(1): 40-58.	In this essay, the authors examine the public discourse of three different proponent groups (Native Americans, Industry, and Community Advocates) to gain insight into the narratives used to justify the decision to support a typically unwanted land use. The questions they ask are: first, who are the actors, what is their agency, and what is their purpose, as revealed through an analysis of the compiled text? Second, in what ways do their stories combine into a coherent narrative of support for the project; and, finally, does the meta-narrative resonate with their primarily western states audience? They conclude with suggestions as to how this project informs participants in other waste management controversies.

Pei, J. Y., et al. (2017). "A new method for early detection of mass concern about public health issues." Journal of Risk Research 20(4): 516-532.	During a public health crisis, risk communication professionals and other risk managers need timely and reliable information about the public reaction as soon as possible in order to effectively carry out their responsibilities. Based on a data-set of microblog news posts, this article presents a method that can forecast to what extent news about a public health issue will be disseminated. The study makes advances in rapidly tracking citizens' reaction towards public health issues by monitoring news media on microblog sites. The findings show that the proposed method can detect early on the intensity of social reaction on a public health issue as well as provide alert signals. The method can also complement existing risk detection systems and help in the design of other powerful risk analytics tools.

Pei, L., et al. (2012). "Synthetic biology in the view of European public funding organisations." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 149-162.	We analysed the decisions of major European public funding organisations to fund or not to fund synthetic biology (SB) and related ethical, legal and social implication (ELSI) studies. We investigated the reaction of public organisations in six countries (Austria, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the UK) towards SB that may influence SB's further development in Europe. We examined R&D and ELSI communities and their particular funding situation. Our results show that the funding situation for SB varies considerably among the analysed countries, with the UK as the only country with an established funding scheme for R&D and ELSI that successfully integrates these research communities. Elsewhere, we determined a general lack of funding (France), difficulties in funding ELSI work (Switzerland), lack of an R&D community (Austria), too small ELSI communities (France, Switzerland, Netherlands), or difficulties in linking existing communities with available funding sources (Germany), partly due to an unclear SB definition.

Pellechia, M. G. (1997). "Trends in science coverage: A content analysis of three US newspapers." Public Understanding of Science 6(1): 49-68.	This paper describes a content analysis of science news reporting in three major daily newspapers, the New York Times, the Chicago Tribune, and the Washington Post, during the last three decades. It was found that although science articles represent only a small percentage of the total number of articles printed, this percentage has steadily increased with each time period. The results also show that, at least in the newspapers analysed, science coverage does nor differ substantially in terms of the range of topics covered, as well as information that has been both included and omitted from science news accounts. Although there were some differences between articles appearing in the different time frames, in general science news reporting has not changed significantly in terms of the comprehensiveness of accounts. An especially significant Ending is that articles frequently omitted methodological and contextual information, features most often mentioned as critical for a complete journalistic account of science.

Pellegrini, G. (2003). "A public for science: Popularization of science in Italy after unification." Public Understanding of Science 12(2): 213-215.
	
Pellizzoni, L. (2017). "Intensifying embroilments: Technosciences, imaginaries and publics." Public Understanding of Science 26(2): 212-219.	A common thread in the contributions to this special issue can be found in the Foucauldian notion of intensification. Technoscientific imaginaries and publics have long been embroiled; yet, elements of novelty in their relationship can be detected in the ambivalence of the overcoming of traditional purification work; the expanding production of 'prototypical' truths; the uncertain threshold between publics of enquirers, witnesses and lookouts; and the growing indistinction of the everyday and the sublime, of trivial and non-trivial futures. The intensification of old patterns and recent trends determines a critical moment in a literal sense of the word: novel potentialities for a democratic governance of technosciences are opening up, but novel dominative opportunities are disclosing as well.

Pender, K. (2018). "Somatic individuality in context, a comparative case study." Public Understanding of Science 27(3): 338-351.	Scholars have challenged the totalizing nature of the geneticization thesis, arguing that its brushstrokes are too broad to capture the complicated nature of the new genetics. One such challenge has come from Nikolas Rose's argument that genetic medicine is governed by a new biopolitics in which patients understand themselves as somatic individuals who treat their bodies as an ethical substance to be worked on in order to secure a healthier future. I argue that Rose's argument, while compelling, paints the new genetics in equally broad brushstrokes and that in order for a concept like somatic individuality to become useful, we must study its manifestation across different communities of at-risk individuals. I undertake such a study by analyzing discourse use in two online biosocial communities, showing how the decision-making situations specific to each affect representations of somatic individuality, often creating opportunities for the rhetorical repurposing of older discourses of genetic determinism.

Penders, B. (2014). "Mythbusters: Credibilising strategies in popular nutrition books by academics." Public Understanding of Science 23(8): 903-910.	Healthy eating is a prominent concern amongst public health and diet professionals. Public understanding of healthy eating presents a topic of interest in understanding scientific credibility in the public domain. Three prominent Dutch nutrition scientists, Kok, Seidell and Katan, have produced popular science books on healthy eating, aiming to remove myths about food and nutrition from the public domain. I describe how they do so, and which strategies they have chosen to achieve this goal. In their books, they move beyond traditional academic strategies to build credibility and devise credibilising strategies resembling those of diet authors. While doing so, they move beyond the deficit model, but end up competing for dietary credibility on the diet authors' terms.

Penkler, M., et al. (2015). "Diagnostic Narratives: Creating Visions of Austrian Society in Print Media Accounts of Obesity." Science Communication 37(3): 314-339.	This study explores how Austrian newspapers and magazines report on the obesity epidemic. We show how the media provide a space for formulating situated diagnostic narratives, that is, accounts that develop both a diagnosis of society through the lens of a health phenomenon and a definition of the phenomenon itself. Nourished by globally circulating discourses, these narratives are articulated in a national context and are enmeshed in biopolitical struggles. Linking a diagnosis of society to the biomedical sphere grants authority to diagnostic narratives and creates a space in which otherwise contestable moral calls to return to traditional orders can be articulated.

Pepermans, Y. and P. Maeseele (2014). "Democratic Debate and Mediated Discourses on Climate Change: From Consensus to De/politicization." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(2): 216-232.	Starting from a risk conflicts perspective, this article challenges two common assumptions of existing research on climate change in public and media discourses. It argues that the evaluation of these discourses on the extent to which these either accurately reflect a scientific consensus or contribute to achieving social consensus insufficiently takes account of the exclusionary mechanisms it starts from. A conceptual and empirical framework is subsequently put forward which allows one to evaluate mediated discourses in terms of the extent to which democratic debate and citizenship are encouraged. Such analysis can reveal the discursive strategies underlying processes of politicization and depoliticization. This perspective is illustrated by an analysis of a local case study: the "Sing for the Climate" campaign. We conclude by calling for a broad systematic research agenda revealing the extent to which de/politicizing discourses are found to influence public and media discourses.

Pepermans, Y. and P. Maeseele (2018). "Manufacturing Consent: Rereading News on Four Climate Summits (2000-2012)." Science Communication 40(5): 621-649.	This article examines if and how news media contribute to manufacturing consent by disabling ideological disagreement about established social structures underlying climate disruption. A critical discourse analysis reveals three discursive constructions emerging in two Belgian elite newspapers and one alternative news site during four climate summits (2000-2012). Despite advocating different policy approaches based on opposing ideological preferences, the newspapers were found to manufacture consent about these preferences by relying on depoliticizing discursive strategies. Only during Conferences of the Parties 18, ideological disagreement about alternative policy frameworks was enabled in the alternative news site and opinionated sections of one newspaper, by relying on politicizing strategies.

Peplow, D. and S. Augustine (2015). "Public health programs as surrogates for social action in Suriname, South America." Public Understanding of Science 24(1): 53-68.	This paper addresses the merits of public health activism that advocates for social change in which health is the outcome of interest. We acknowledge that while efforts at the individual level are important, social network models consider the underlying mechanisms that lie outside the public health sector. This paper considers the inequitable health of Indigenous people who bear a disproportionate share of the negative health consequences due to economic development programs that follow an assimilation model. This paper discusses a combination of theoretical constructs to understand and solve the problems at hand. It concludes that while the attention paid to technological and behavioral solutions at the individual level yields important health outcomes, attention should also be paid to structural causes that address social, political and economic barriers to prevent disease, disability and premature death.

Pereira, T. S., et al. (2017). "Imaginaries of nuclear energy in the Portuguese parliament: Between promise, risk, and democracy." Public Understanding of Science 26(3): 289-306.	This article explores the evolution of the nuclear energy debate and its associated controversies in the Portuguese parliament. The analysis focuses on the dictatorial regime of the New State (from the beginning of the nuclear program in 1951 until the 1974 revolution) and on the democratic period (post-1974). Portugal, as an exporting country of uranium minerals, significantly invested in the development of a national capacity in nuclear research, but never developed an endogenous nuclear power infrastructure. Through the analysis of parliamentary debates, this article characterizes the dynamic evolution of the Portuguese sociotechnical imaginary on nuclear energy and technology interlinked with ambivalent representations, including the promise of nuclear energy as key for the constitution of a technological Nation or as prompting new sociotechnical risks.

Perko, T., et al. (2014). "Insights into the reception and acceptance of risk messages: nuclear emergency communication." Journal of Risk Research 17(9): 1207-1232.	The objective of this paper is to test whether the effect of variables such as knowledge, attitudes, trust, risk perception, and psychometric risk characteristics changes in the different stages of risk-related information processing. To address this question, a distinction is made between two information-processing steps, reception (measured as a person's ability to retain the information communicated) and acceptance (measured as a person's level of agreement with the communicated information). An empirical study was conducted, using a radiological accident (2008) in Belgium as a communication case study. Face-to-face interviews were conducted on a large sample of Belgian population representative with respect to province, region, level of urbanization, gender, age, and professionally active status (N = 1031) and among the population living in vicinity of the accident (N = 104). All factors were measured on reliable scales (Cronbach's alpha > .75). The reception-acceptance model was used to produce new insights into risk communication. The results demonstrate that knowledge was the driving factor only for the reception of risk messages, while heuristic predictors such as psychometric risk characteristics, attitudes, and trust were most influential for the acceptance of risk messages. It is discussed how the results will facilitate a more thorough understanding of information processing and how they could be used to design more focused risk communication strategies.

Perko, T., et al. (2013). "Communication in Nuclear Emergency Preparedness: A Closer Look at Information Reception." Risk Analysis 33(11): 1987-2001.	Preparedness of the general population plays a key role in the effective implementation of protective actions in case of a nuclear emergency (e.g., evacuation or intake of iodine tablets). In this context, a good communication of emergency management actors with the public along the entire cycle of preparedness-response-recovery is of paramount importance. This article aims at providing a better understanding of the way people process communicated messages and the factors that may influence how they do this. In particular, it investigates information reception as part of the information processing in precrisis communication. As a case study, the precrisis communication context was chosen, as it has been tackled to a lesser extent in the literature. The empirical data used for this study originated from a large-scale opinion survey in Belgium. One topic in this survey addressed the information campaign for the distribution of iodine tablets, in the context of preparedness for nuclear emergencies. The findings of this study demonstrate that systematic predictors have a stronger influence on information reception, as compared to heuristic predictors. The latter are only to a minor extent involved in the reception of emergency preparedness information. The hypothesized patternthat more specific knowledge about the field relates to a higher reception of informationwas confirmed for precrisis communication. Contrary to expectations, results showed that people with a high perception of radiation risks were less attentive to information about protective actions. People with little confidence in authorities were also more likely to have a low reception of information.

Perkowitz, R. M. (2010). "Climate Communications: Conflicts and Opportunities." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(1): 66-69.	The occasion for this forum was sparked by a front-page story in the New York Times by John M. Broder entitled, "Seeking to Save the Planet, with a Thesaurus'' ( May 1, 2009, p. A11). The article focused on the non-profit EcoAmerica's report, "Climate and Energy Truths: Our Common Future,'' which shares research on communication approaches to engaging climate change and energy issues. The Broder article included commentary from Robert J. Brulle, Professor of Sociology and Environmental Science at Drexel University. In response, George P. Lakoff, Professor of Cognitive Science and Linguistics at UC-Berkeley, published an essay in The Huffington Post, "Why Environmental Understanding, or 'Framing,' Matters: An Evaluation of the EcoAmerica Summary Report'' (May 19, 2009). The discussion about this report and differing approaches to environmental communication continued on blogs, in emails, and through various other forums. The editorial leadership team of this journal thought such prominent attention to environmental communication in the nexus of so many disciplines and professional investments was exciting. We are pleased the following scholars and practitioners are willing to elaborate on the stakes of this discussion in this forum.

Perloff, R. (1998). "Impediments in the production and consumption of science and technical communication." Science Communication 20(1): 81-90.	Scientific and technical communication to the public suffers not from problems of magnitude but from impediments to its production and consumption, especially inaccuracy, distortion, and deception. The author describes how ambiguity self-interest, and exaggeration, for example, influence production quality, and how such factors as existing audience bias lack of trust in scientific evidence, and resistance to change further complicate assimilation of messages about science.

Perry, C. K. and R. E. Rice (1999). "Network influences on involvement in the hybrid problem area of development dyslexia." Science Communication 21(1): 38-74.	A scientific communication model of the emergence of a hybrid research area was developed and tested in the field of developmental dyslexia, using multiple data sources concerning personal, professional publication and network aspects of seventy-four dyslexia researchers. Results suggest that societal concerns,federal research policy, and grant funding may play major roles in encouraging growth and change in a problem area, but that subject background and perceptions of past controversies also strongly influence researchers' involvement. The findings suggest the value of conceptualizing all of science communication, including the popularization of science, as a continuum within the larger society.

Persson, P. E. (2000). "Science centers are thriving and going strong!" Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 449-460.	In a critique of the science center movement, J. M. Bradburne tin Public Understanding of Science 7, no. 3 [July 1998]: 237-253) maintained that science centers were unwilling to adapt, and were therefore doomed. In this response, the author shows that science centers are adapting and changing. Science center attendance is growing worldwide, both in old and new institutions. Science centers typically operate from buildings, while providing services outside the site. There is a wide range of inventiveness in selecting sites, and, as a result, determining capital expenditure. Science centers are comparatively cost effective and viable. They typically depend on several sources of revenue. Through several examples, evidence of change in science centers is presented. Science centers likewise tend to have an individual flavor in different parts of the world. Science centers are attractive and competitive, and they cater to local audiences. Present day science centers should be considered third generation museums. The emphasis on hands-on exhibits in science centers may have limited the way in which science is depicted in science centers. Taken as a whole, science centers seem to be both sustainable and to provide value for money.

Peter, C. and T. Koch (2016). "When Debunking Scientific Myths Fails (and When It Does Not): The Backfire Effect in the Context of Journalistic Coverage and Immediate Judgments as Prevention Strategy." Science Communication 38(1): 3-25.	When reporting scientific information, journalists often present common myths that are refuted with scientific facts. However, correcting misinformation this way is often not only ineffective but can increase the likelihood that people misremember it as true. We test this backfire effect in the context of journalistic coverage and examine how to counteract it. In a web-based experiment, we find evidence for a systematic backfire effect that occurs after a few minutes and strengthens after five days. Results show that forming judgments immediately during reception (in contrast to memory-based) can reduce backfire effects and prevent erroneous memory from affecting participants' attitudes.

Peterman, K., et al. (2017). "Assessing Public Engagement Outcomes by the Use of an Outcome Expectations Scale for Scientists." Science Communication 39(6): 782-797.	This study presents initial work to validate a scale designed to measure scientists' outcome expectations in relation to public engagement. A 20-item survey was administered to a sample of 341 scientists. Graded response models were used to assess the quality of the items. Results suggest that six items provided the strongest measure of outcome expectations, with classically adequate reliability across a wide range of scientists and scores. The findings are presented in relation to the short-term outcomes of public engagement for scientists and the need for validated scales that allow for the continued study of science communication efforts.

Peters, E., et al. (2012). "Protective Measures, Personal Experience, and the Affective Psychology of Time." Risk Analysis 32(12): 2084-2097.	We examined the role of time and affect in intentions to purchase a risk-protective measure (Studies 1 and 2) and explored participant abilities to factor time into the likelihood judgments that presumably underlie such intentions (Study 3). Participants worried more about losing their possessions and were more likely to purchase a protective measure given a longer term lease than a short-term lease, but only if their belongings were described in affect-poor terms. If described instead as being particularly special and affect-rich, participants neglected time and were about equally likely to purchase a risk-protective measure for shorter and longer term leases. However, and consistent with prior literature, the cognitive mechanism underlying this time-neglect-with-affect-richness effect seemed to be the greater use of the affect heuristic in the shorter term than the longer term. Study 2 results demonstrated that prior experience with having been burglarized amplified the interactive effect of time and affect. Greater deliberation did not attenuate this effect as hypothesized whether deliberation was measured through numeracy or manipulated through instructions. The results of Study 3 indicated that few participants are able to calculate correctly the risk numbers necessary to take time into account. Two possible solutions to encourage more purchases of protective measures in the long term are discussed.

Peters, E. M., et al. (2004). "An emotion-based model of risk perception and stigma susceptibility: Cognitive appraisals of emotion, affective reactivity, worldviews, and risk perceptions in the generation of technological stigma." Risk Analysis 24(5): 1349-1367.	A study (N = 198) was conducted to examine hypotheses derived from an emotion-based model of stigma responses to radiation sources. A model of stigma susceptibility is proposed in which affective reactions and cognitive worldviews activate predispositions to appraise and experience events in systematic ways that result in the generation of negative emotion, risk perceptions, and stigma responses. Results of structural equation modeling supported the hypotheses. Radiation sources that scored higher on a measured stigma were included in the analyses (i.e., nuclear power plants, radioactive waste from nuclear power plants, radiation from nuclear weapons testing). Individual differences in negative reactivity and worldviews were associated with the strength of emotional appraisals that were associated, in turn, with negative emotion toward stigmatized radiation sources. As hypothesized, the model fit better with perceived risk as a function of negative emotion rather than vice versa. Finally, a measure of stigma was associated with negative emotion and, to a lesser extent, with risk perceptions. Risk communication about stigmatized objects may benefit from a more complete understanding, of how affective and emotional reactions are constructed and the routes through which they affect responses and behaviors.

Peters, H. P. (2018). "Can Neuroscience Change Our Minds?" Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 1010-1012.
	
Peters, H. P., et al. (2008). "Science-Media Interface It's Time to Reconsider." Science Communication 30(2): 266-276.	An international mail survey of 1,354 biomedical researchers in five countries has revealed that interaction with the media is widespread among this group and that this interaction is largely perceived in a positive light. Possible reasons are offered as to why the perception persists that the scientist-journalist relationship remains troubled, despite the apparent reality. This reality may have negative as well as positive implications; the potential for too much control by the scientific community of media coverage about it, as well as that for too much media influence on inner-scientific processes, are also addressed.

Peters, H. P. and S. Dunwoody (2016). "Scientific uncertainty in media content: Introduction to this special issue." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 893-908.	This introduction sets the stage for the special issue on the public communication of scientific uncertainty that follows by sketching the wider landscape of issues related to the communication of uncertainty and showing how the individual contributions fit into that landscape. The first part of the introduction discusses the creation of media content as a process involving journalists, scientific sources, stakeholders, and the responsive audience. The second part then provides an overview of the perception of scientific uncertainty presented by the media and the consequences for the recipients' own assessments of uncertainty. Finally, we briefly describe the six research articles included in this special issue.

Peters, H. P., et al. (2008). Medialization of Science as a Prerequisite of Its Legitimization and Political Relevance. Communicating Science in Social Contexts: New models, new practices. D. Cheng, M. Claessens, T. Gascoigne et al. Dordrecht, Springer Netherlands: 71-92.	Sociologists have diagnosed an increasing ‘medialization’ of science—that is, an orientation towards the mass media, with the consequence that media criteria become relevant within science. The medialization of science is seen in this chapter as a consequence of the medialization of politics. Based on empirical surveys of German researchers, public information officers of science organizations and decision-makers in the political-administrative system, as well as a hermeneutical analysis of German press coverage, the authors analyse the manifestations and political impacts of medialization in the public communication of scientists and science organizations. Two biomedical fields—stem cell research and epidemiology—are used as case studies. Results of the empirical analyses support the hypothesis that the medialization of science, in so far as it guides the public communication strategies of scientific actors, increases the chances of scientific actors being noticed and taken seriously by the political-administrative system. Effects are seen in a contribution to the legitimization of science by reinforcing the perception of its social relevance and in improving the chances of scientific expertise becoming effective in policy-making.

Peters, R. G., et al. (1997). "The determinants of trust and credibility in environmental risk communication: An empirical study." Risk Analysis 17(1): 43-54.	This study examines a key component of environmental risk communication; trust and credibility. The study was conducted in two parts. In the first part, six hypotheses regarding the perceptions and determinants of trust and credibility were tested against survey data. The hypotheses were supported by the data. The most important hypothesis was that perceptions of trust and credibility are dependent on three factors: perceptions of knowledge and expertise; perceptions of openness and honesty; and perceptions of concern and care. In the second part, models were constructed with perceptions of trust and credibility as the dependent variable. The goal was to examine the data for findings with direct policy implications. One such finding was that defying a negative stereotype is key to improving perceptions of trust and credibility.

Peters, R. G., et al. (1998). "Determining the determinants of trust - Reply." Risk Analysis 18(3): 233-234.
	
Petersen, A., et al. (2009). "Opening the black box: scientists' views on the role of the news media in the nanotechnology debate." Public Understanding of Science 18(5): 512-530.	Increasingly, scientists and policy makers have come to recognize that if nanotechnologies are to achieve wide public acceptance, it is essential to engage publics during the early phase of technology development. The media, situated at the interface between scientists and lay publics, possess the potential to play a significant role in public engagement in this field. This article, drawing on data from a recent survey and interview-based study, examines how scientists perceive and evaluate the production and coverage of news on nanotechnologies. Scientists acknowledged the significance of the media in shaping public perceptions of nanotechnologies and saw a role for the media in public engagement efforts. Most had criticisms of media coverage and offered suggestions as to how it could be improved. However, their comments often revealed a one-dimensional conception of science mediation that overlooked the influence of their own claims. Any efforts to enrich public dialogue about nanotechnologies must endeavor to advance understanding among scientists about the operations of the media and their own role in news production.

Peterson, I. (2001). "Touring the scientific Web." Science Communication 22(3): 246-255.	The World Wide Web has provided the general public with access to massive amounts of information that was often previously difficult to find or perhaps even inaccessible. Sorting through the scientific and medical information that is now available on the Web, however, is a daunting task. It is often difficult to assess the credibility of a source of information or the reliability of the information itself This article provides an overview of a variety of science-related Web sites.

Peterson, M. N., et al. (2007). "Environmental Communication: Why This Crisis Discipline Should Facilitate Environmental Democracy." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(1): 74-86.	The authors concur with Cox's claim that environmental communication (EC), like conservation biology, is a crisis discipline. Cox's proposed tenets for EC challenge the scientific norm of objectivity that has guided science for centuries, suggesting that today's environmental crisis requires us to travel a different path. The authors take Cox's essay as provocation to radically challenge magical notions of scientific objectivity. They briefly review Platonic contributions to the myth of scientific objectivity and then advocate a nondualistic perspective toward the relationship between humans and nature. They then suggest how this perspective both expands upon and diverges from Cox's vision of political and ethical engagement among EC scholars.

Peterson, M. N., et al. (2010). "Views of Private-Land Stewardship among Latinos on the Texas-Tamaulipas Border." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(4): 406-421.	Successful conservation efforts require understanding predictors of private-land stewardship (PLS), its definitions, and what people feel they owe stewardship responsibility to. Various strands of research have touched on the concept, but there is little research focusing on how it is communicated and enacted among the lay public, especially among Latinos. We used a case study in the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas to address this gap by identifying and assessing Latino views of PLS. Our results indicate positive relationships between self-identification as a land steward, male gender, and agricultural-land ownership. Respondents associated PLS with property maintenance (60%), natural-resource conservation (14%), and addressing pollution problems (21%). They viewed PLS as a responsibility owed to family rather than to a larger community.

Petts, J. (1997). "The public-expert interface in local waste management decisions: expertise, credibility and process." Public Understanding of Science 6(4): 359-381.	Decision-making strategies which favour the top-down model do not recognize expertise as a communication and learning process, and have been seen to fail in many risk management contexts, in particular in local waste management decision-making. Examination of a novel public involvement programme in the development of a local waste strategy provides an opportunity to understand expertise as a process: in particular, (i) how expert knowledge is selected at the technical-democratic interface, (ii) how information is shaped and balanced, and (iii) whether knowledge shifts during processes of exposure to expertise. It provides evidence that counters expert views that the public are irrational, lack interest, and are concerned only about zero-risk options. Most importantly, it provides evidence that expertise is inextricably linked to its source, and that perceptions that expertise is not independent have a significant impact on public responses. Means to optimize the process of expertise are discussed.

Petts, J. (2004). "Barriers to participation and deliberation in risk decisions: evidence from waste management." Journal of Risk Research 7(2): 115-133.	Despite increased support for extended public engagement in risk decision-making, significant questions remain over the best means to integrated deliberative processes with conventional 'scientific' or technical elements. This paper analyses the barriers to analytic-deliberative processes as a means by which the public can influence risk decisions, including the generation of data and the derivation of acceptable policy options. Using evidence from waste management decision processes in Britain, the discussion identifies technical, institutional and cultural barriers to effective process. The barriers are seen to limit systematic analysis appropriate to the problems as framed by the public. The principle that the nature of the risks and the assessment required needs to be determined through discussion with the public not in advance of discussion with them is challenged by proceduralization cultures within decision authorities and ingrained technical cultural perspectives. It is evident also that fundamental barriers lie in fragmentary decision processes and weak regulation. The paper discusses the requirements for a decision-support framework for multicriteria decision-making with full public participation.

Petts, J. (2008). "Public engagement to build trust: false hopes?" Journal of Risk Research 11(6): 821-835.	Public engagement through deliberative processes is promoted in both academic and policy circles as a potential means to build public trust in risk decisions and decision-makers. Governments in particular seem to optimistically take a positive relationship between public engagement and trust almost for granted. This paper provides a new and critical analysis of this hoped-for relationship, questioning whether such a direct and positive link between engagement and trust is a false hope. The paper draws upon personal experience of deliberative processes to discuss key components of an engagement process that have the potential to impact positively on trust. Specifically, who is engaged and which interests are represented; an open and collaborative framing of the discussion, and a direct and clear relationship between engagement and the risk decision. But the paper argues that given the complexities of optimising these process elements and in the light of the known underlying dimensions of trust, expectations are misplaced and that enduring trust is unlikely to spring from engagement itself. This is not to negate the other benefits of engagement, rather it is to focus on those key elements that will need to be in place, both process and beyond, if trust is to be enhanced.

Pezzullo, P. C. (2016). "Hello from the other side: popular culture, crisis, and climate activism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 803-806.
	
Pfister, D. S. (2015). ""A Short Burst of Inconsequential Information:" Networked Rhetorics, Avian Consciousness, and Bioegalitarianism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(1): 118-136.	This essay uses the concept of "avian consciousness" to reconsider assumptions about human communication and theorize networked rhetorics. By adopting an ornithomorphic frame, I critically read Don DeLillo's The Body Artist as an exploration of overlaps between human and avian consciousness. I then argue that avian consciousness provides a richer metaphor for understanding networked rhetorics than autistic consciousness, which is an increasingly dominant trope for explaining interaction with digitally networked media. I explore how Twitter, explicitly modeled on avian communication, can be understood as circulating information in ways analogous to the contact and assembly calls of birds. The essay concludes by noting that seeing avian features in human communication diminishes the perceived gap between human and nonhuman animal, holding out hope for a more bioegalitarian relationship between species.

Phaneuf, M. R., et al. (2007). "Square pegs in round holes - The relative importance of traditional and nontraditional scholarship in Canadian universities." Science Communication 28(4): 501-518.	In May 2003 all university faculties of medicine, health sciences, nursing, business, and public administration in Canada were surveyed to document whether their promotion practices gave equal treatment to researchers with traditional disciplinary-based scholarly outputs versus those with nontraditional Outputs flowing from an applied interest in interdisciplinary research, collaboration with nonacademics, and knowledge transfer. Forty-seven deans (response rate = 67 percent) and thirty-two promotion committee members (response rate = 51 percent) consistently rated research as more important than teaching and community service in promotion proceedings. Furthermore, in their considerations of research they accorded significantly more value in promotion to traditional than to nontraditional scholarly outputs. Among the deans, for example, the top ten ranked activities included seven traditional research outputs, two teaching-related Outputs, and only one nontraditional research output. Scholars with nontraditional outputs were slightly less disadvantaged in health-related faculties compared to the nonhealth faculties. Despite broader acceptance of an evolving research landscape in Canadian universities, current reward structures may create barriers for academics interested in conducting nontraditional research characteristic of the emerging paradigm of applied scholarship.

Phillips, A. T. (2014). "Eliding Extraction, Embracing Novelty: The Spatio-Temporal Configuration of Natural History." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(4): 452-467.	Natural history museums present fertile ground for considering material configurations of "nature" and "history." This essay analyzes the Natural History Museum of Utah at Rio Tinto Center (NHMU) to explore how spatio-temporal configurations of nature and history may paradoxically elide the deep time of natural history. Primarily considering its naming and its spatial placement rather than the impressive collections it houses, I identify spatio-temporal distortions related to three elements of the NHMU: its naming after a multinational mining company, its architectural attempt to represent iconic landforms, and its imposition on a heretofore-undeveloped parcel of land. Taking these distortions in sum, I argue that the museum, which is meant by its architects to be in harmony with the land, elides rather than harmonizes with the land that produced its collections by replacing ancientness with novelty and by conjoining extraction and education. This elision, performed by a building purported to embody the full depth of time, may flatten the deep time of the geologic past, thereby abetting the concealment of the ever-expanding extraction.

Phillips, A. T. (2017). "Bordering Ecosystems: The Rhetorical Function of Characterization in Gray Wolf Management." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(4): 435-451.	Decisions about iconic species such as the wolf provide a key index of human-nature relations. The gray wolf's reintroduction in the USA has been controversial, particularly at the interface of state versus federal management. This essay analyzes discourse surrounding this controversy, focusing on how wolves are characterized as ecological and social actors in official correspondence and management plans. I interpret this textual evidence by drawing from social theory regarding sovereignty, discipline, and population, including studies on bordering practices imposed on humans. As with humans, bordering practices in the case of the wolf may illuminate how political forces impose physical and discursive limits upon mobile bodies motivated to move across political borders by powerful exigencies of need. The essay seeks to amplify understanding about how regimes of power enact difference from others whose presence strongly influences the health of ecosystems and economies.

Phillips, L. J. (2011). "Analysing the dialogic turn in the communication of research-based knowledge: An exploration of the tensions in collaborative research." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 80-100.	Tensions have been identified in the shift to dialogue whereby researchers produce and communicate research-based knowledge in interaction with different social actors. This paper draws on three perspectives on those tensions-science and technology studies analyses of public engagement, action research and dialogic communication theory-in order to explore how the tensions are articulated in the communication processes that are integral to the co-production of knowledge in a case study of collaborative research about virtual worlds. The data analysed are based on the workshops where the collaborating actors (university researchers and practitioners) co-produce knowledge through communication processes in which different expert-identities and knowledge forms are negotiated. The analysis explores the balancing-act between imposing control on the research process and opening up for a plurality of voices. The paper concludes with a discussion of the value of a reflexive approach for the analysis and design of dialogic research communication.

Phipps, M. and S. Rowe (2010). "Seeing satellite data." Public Understanding of Science 19(3): 311-321.	Complex scientific visualizations are becoming standard parts of many educational experiences, both in and out of schools. We found that satellite visualizations used by ocean scientists were difficult for teachers, students, and museum visitors to understand. The research reported on here documents some of those difficulties and explores alternate visualizations that proved more robust for novice users of the data. Five different visualizations of two ocean properties as sensed by satellites are shown and their affordances and constraints for both scientists and novice users are discussed. We illustrate the importance of incorporating culturally meaningful color representations and measurement scales for designing education materials using satellite data.

Pickersgill, M., et al. (2015). "The changing brain: Neuroscience and the enduring import of everyday experience." Public Understanding of Science 24(7): 878-892.	Discourses of neuroplasticity' have become increasingly apparent in the neurosciences and wider society. These connect with broader narratives about the changing brain' throughout the life-course. Here, we explore their presence in the talk of a range of publics. Their presence is indicative of how novel neuroscience is accepted, or not, by our participants. In particular, we suggest that any acceptance of the science relates to their personal and/or professional experiences of change (to their own or others' subjectivities) rather than to some intrinsic and widely-held significance of scientific concepts per se. Accordingly, we also submit that it is in part through the congruence of some neuroscientific claims to everyday experiences and perspectives that the former are rendered legible and salient. In this respect, lay' knowledge has considerable import for the wider cultural authorisation of that of experts'.

Pidgeon, N. (2012). "Climate Change Risk Perception and Communication: Addressing a Critical Moment?" Risk Analysis 32(6): 951-956.	Climate change is an increasingly salient issue for societies and policy-makers worldwide. It now raises fundamental interdisciplinary issues of risk and uncertainty analysis and communication. The growing scientific consensus over the anthropogenic causes of climate change appears to sit at odds with the increasing use of risk discourses in policy: for example, to aid in climate adaptation decision making. All of this points to a need for a fundamental revision of our conceptualization of what it is to do climate risk communication. This Special Collection comprises seven papers stimulated by a workshop on Climate Risk Perceptions and Communication held at Cumberland Lodge Windsor in 2010. Topics addressed include climate uncertainties, images and the media, communication and public engagement, uncertainty transfer in climate communication, the role of emotions, localization of hazard impacts, and longitudinal analyses of climate perceptions. Climate change risk perceptions and communication work is critical for future climate policy and decisions.

Pidgeon, N. (2014). "Complexity, uncertainty and future risks." Journal of Risk Research 17(10): 1269-1271.	Roger Kasperson's paper prompts us to reflect on whether traditional risk communication tools and approaches might be inadequate for many of the tasks now emerging. One can point to the increasingly complex nature of some technological and environmental hazards; the need to scrutinise emerging technologies upstream of significant applications; and fundamental changes to risk identities within society. Perhaps, we now genuinely face a risk society, exemplified by the dysfunction of global financial systems, extreme inequalities and encroaching environmental threats, alongside the unwinding of traditional social identities? Strategic capacity to address many of these fundamental risk challenges is lacking.

Pidgeon, N., et al. (2011). "Nanotechnology Risk Perceptions and Communication: Emerging Technologies, Emerging Challenges." Risk Analysis 31(11): 1694-1700.	Nanotechnology involves the fabrication, manipulation, and control of materials at the atomic level and may also bring novel uncertainties and risks. Potential parallels with other controversial technologies mean there is a need to develop a comprehensive understanding of processes of public perception of nanotechnology uncertainties, risks, and benefits, alongside related communication issues. Study of perceptions, at so early a stage in the development trajectory of a technology, is probably unique in the risk perception and communication field. As such it also brings new methodological and conceptual challenges. These include: dealing with the inherent diversity of the nanotechnology field itself; the unfamiliar and intangible nature of the concept, with few analogies to anchor mental models or risk perceptions; and the ethical and value questions underlying many nanotechnology debates. Utilizing the lens of social amplification of risk, and drawing upon the various contributions to this special issue of Risk Analysis on Nanotechnology Risk Perceptions and Communication, nanotechnology may at present be an attenuated hazard. The generic idea of "upstream public engagement" for emerging technologies such as nanotechnology is also discussed, alongside its importance for future work with emerging technologies in the risk communication field.

Pidgeon, N. F., et al. (2005). "Using surveys in public participation processes for risk decision making: The case of the 2003 British GM nation? Public debate." Risk Analysis 25(2): 467-479.	This article takes as its case study the "GM Nation&QUEST;" public debate, a major participation process on the commercialization of agricultural biotechnology, which occurred in Britain during the summer of 2003. We investigate possible self-selection biases in over 36,000 open questionnaire responses on the risks and benefits of genetically modified crops and food obtained during GM Nation&QUEST; A comparison sample of equivalent responses from a statistically representative sample (n= 1,363) of the British general public obtained shortly after the conclusion of the debate is reported. This comparison shows that the GM Nation&QUEST; open responses were indeed not fully representative of British "public opinion" regarding agricultural biotechnology. Rather, such opinion is not a unitary whole, but fragmented, with considerable ambivalence coexisting alongside outright opposition to GM agriculture. The methodological implications for multistage participation processes are discussed: in particular, the need to anticipate outcomes of complex design decisions, and to include representative public surveys as standard where measures of broader public attitudes to risk are an important objective.

Pilgeram, R. and R. Meeuf (2015). "Good Food, Good Intentions: Where Pro-sustainability Arguments Get Stale in US Food Documentaries." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(1): 100-117.	Focusing on recent documentaries about sustainable agriculture in the US-Food, Inc., The Garden, Fresh, and Farmageddon-this paper examines how pro-sustainable food arguments fail to merge environmentalism and environmental justice. By framing their approach to sustainable food production around the normative issue of "good food" for capitalist consumers, such documentaries ignore questions about community and cultural conceptions of farmers. In the process the films promote a problematic vision of the white family farm. As a consequence, these films limit a reimagining of alternative food systems, the roles for diverse actors within those systems, and possibilities for eaters beyond "voting with your fork." Several exceptions, most notably The Garden, are used to suggest how cinema might radically re-envision participation in alternative forms of agriculture.

Pin, R. R. and J. M. Gutteling (2009). "The Development of Public Perception Research in the Genomics Field An Empirical Analysis of the Literature in the Field." Science Communication 31(1): 57-83.	This article describes a meta-analysis that was conducted on the subjects of published academic research on the public perception of genomics. In total, 451 journal articles were analyzed, all published between 1970 and 2006 and sampled from the databases Web of Science and Scopus. Results indicate the increasing popularity of research on this topic in the last decade, which reflects the same curve as media coverage of the new technology. Many authors study the public perception of genomics, but only a small number are productive. There is a strong focus on food and agriculture genomics and a separate field of authors and journals for medical genomics. The authors make several recommendations for future developments in the public perception of genomics.

Pingree, S., et al. (2000). "The effect of family communication patterns on young people's science literacy." Science Communication 22(2): 115-132.	Given the rapid pace and complexity of science today, science literacy cannot mean understanding all of science. Rather;science literacy more appropriately means the critical evaluation of sources of information and basic standards of scientific performance as a guide to accepting and applying scientific knowledge to one's own life. The development of science literacy in children is probably shaped by other norms and experiences. This study examined the impact of family communication patterns on children's evaluations of a science story that contained a number of weaknesses. A family orientation toward concepts led to children's self-reported thinking about science issues when they considered the science information in the story. However; this led to actual critiques of the science in the story only,when the concept-orientation was not accompanied by a simultaneous socio-orientation, the family orientation toward harmony and hierarchy.

Pinto, A., et al. (2017). "Italian consumers' attitudes towards food risks: self-protective and non-self-protective profiles for effective risk communication." Journal of Risk Research 20(3): 366-384.	The study aims to assess Italian consumers' attitudes towards food risks and seeks to outline their socio-demographic and behavioural characteristics on the basis of their attitudes (self-protective and non-self-protective) towards food risks. Using the Computer-assisted telephone interviewing survey method, a sample of 1000 Italian consumers was interviewed on risk perception issues and general eating habits. Factor analyses on the consumers' propensities to read the label when buying a food product for the first time, their propensities to seek food-related information and their perceived levels of exposure to food risks have enabled us to define Italian consumers' attitudes towards food risks. Distinguishing between consumers with more self-protective attitudes and those with less self-protective attitudes and identifying their distinctive socio-demographic and behavioural characteristics (e.g. gender, age, the frequency with which respondents do grocery shopping and the channels used for further inquiry) are crucial for communication campaigns aimed at reducing consumers' exposure to food risks.

Pinto, B. (2018). "1998, celebrating oceans in Lisbon Expo'98: World exhibitions and science communication." Public Understanding of Science 27(4): 490-494.
	
Pinto, B., et al. (2015). "Communicating through humour: A project of stand-up comedy about science." Public Understanding of Science 24(7): 776-793.	A study of a project on science stand-up comedy developed in Portugal between 2009 and 2013 is presented, in which thirteen scientists, coordinated by a science communicator and a professional actor, created and presented comedy acts. Eleven of these scientists were asked about their motivations to participate, the process of performance development and the perceived value of the project. Personal motivations were highly important, but professional reasons were also mentioned. Working in a group with the guidance of coordinators, testing and re-writing the texts and gradually gaining confidence on stage were considered fundamental in the development of the shows. Additionally, a questionnaire revealed that the audience, most of whom were young adults, and held a higher education degree, were satisfied with the show. Overall, both participating scientists and audience members considered that stand-up comedy has potential for science communication.

Pirages, D. (1996). "Intellectual property in a postindustrial world." Science Communication 17(3): 267-273.	An acceleration of the rare of innovation and associated transformation of industrial to postindustrial societies raises fundamental questions about the viability of the existing intellectual property regime. Among these hey questions are who should make future intellectual property rules, what protection should be given to property developed with government funding, how much regulation should be applied to potential monopolies in life-saving technologies, whether all products should receive the same types of protection, and whether there is too much emphasis on pecuniary rewards as motivation for innovation. In an economically divided global village, important questions must also be addressed about the applicability of the same set of rules in both industrial and postindustrial settings.

Pitrelli, N., et al. (2006). "Science in advertising: uses and consumptions in the Italian press." Public Understanding of Science 15(2): 207-220.	Among the social practices that the world of advertising draws upon in order to convey its message, science is used to convince the target audience of the effectiveness of the product it is promoting. The study of the presence and use of science to encourage consumer spending provides information on the public perception of science itself. The present work analyzes these aspects with reference to the Italian press. A quantitative study was carried out on a sample of daily, weekly and monthly publications throughout 2002 and 2003, using a coding frame that enabled the identification of the frequency of scientific messages in advertising, the occurrence of scientific content in the images, the context in which they are set and the type of language used. The results demonstrate that science has a consistent presence in advertising and the image of science that derives from this is a positive one.

Pittinger, C. A., et al. (2003). "Aligning chemical assessment tools across the hazard-risk continuum." Risk Analysis 23(3): 529-535.	With the growing number and diversity of hazard and risk assessment algorithms, models, databases, and frameworks for chemicals and their applications, risk assessors and managers are challenged to select the appropriate tool for a given need or decision. Some decisions require relatively simple tools to evaluate chemical hazards (e.g., toxicity), such as labeling for safe occupational handling and transport of chemicals. Others require assessment tools that provide relative comparisons among chemical properties, such as selecting the optimum chemical for a particular use among a group of candidates. Still other needs warrant full risk characterization, coupling both hazard and exposure considerations. Examples of these include new chemical evaluations for commercialization, evaluations of existing chemicals for novel uses, and assessments of the adequacy of risk management provisions. Even well-validated tools can be inappropriately applied, with consequences as severe as misguided chemical management, compromised credibility of the tool and its developers and users, and squandered resources. This article describes seven discrete categories of tools based on their information content, function, and the type of outputs produced. It proposes a systematic framework to assist users in selecting hazard and risk assessment tools for given applications. This analysis illustrates the importance of careful selection of assessment tools to achieve responsible chemical assessment communication and sound risk management.

Pleasant, A. (2018). "Immunization-How Vaccines Became Controversial." Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 1015-1016.
	
Pleasant, A., et al. (2002). "The literature of environmental communication." Public Understanding of Science 11(2): 197-205.	This paper examines the growth and development of the literature of "environmental communication" research. The paper collects citations of all papers matching specified keywords covering environmental communication topics in the social science journal literature from relevant indices. The indices used were: the Institute for Scientific Information's (ISI) Social Sciences Citation Index (Web of Science), the ISI Arts and Humanities Citation Index (Web of Science) Communication Abstracts, PsycINFO, Anthropological Literature, Sociology Abstracts and Periodical Abstracts (Pro-Quest Direct). The. paper analyzes the collected citations for journal of publication, date, and frequency of publication by year, author, and keywords and topics. The paper shows what topics, of attention, what fields, and what journals have been interested in publishing environmental communication research, and some of the authors leading the way. In addition, basic topics of interest for environmental communication research are discerned. The literature review shows the need for a more centralized point of publication for environmental communication research.

Plec, E. (2007). "Crisis, Coherence, and the Promise of Critical Rhetoric." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(1): 49-57.	This essay responds to the keynote address by Cox by discussing the ways in which critical rhetoric is implicated in environmental communication (EC) as a crisis discipline, as well as the ways in which EC, so positioned, is implicated within a broader coherentist epistemology. Issues of exigency, representation, and sustainability are considered, along with an examination of the concepts of nominalism and doxa as they relate to the enterprise of EC research. The critical cultural politics embedded in much EC scholarship are also addressed in terms of their intersections with the increasingly unscrupulous abuse of language within antienvironmental administrative rhetorics.

Plec, E. and M. Pettenger (2012). "Greenwashing Consumption: The Didactic Framing of ExxonMobil's Energy Solutions." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(4): 459-476.	Corporate advertising campaigns increasingly use environmental frames to promote their products and processes, many of which are neither sustainable nor environmentally friendly. This study examines ExxonMobil's recent efforts at green advertising, focusing specifically on their widely aired Energy Solutions television advertisements. We argue that ExxonMobil's use of a didactic, greenwashed frame stifles criticism and discourages examination of ideologies of consumption by exploiting the ethos of the scientist and highlighting technological solutions to problems that are deeply tied to a culture of consumerism. The definition of green energy is controlled by those with the power to generate persuasive public messages about the sources and production of energy. Counterframes, however, can be employed to turn a questioning eye upon the solutions advanced by ExxonMobil. We issue a call for green frames that help citizens and consumers critically examine the ecological integrity of all means of energy production, and that call attention to the ways in which the greenwashing of research and development initiatives can dissuade necessary action, including reduction of US energy consumption.

Plesner, U. (2012). "The performativity of "media logic" in the mass mediation of science." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 674-688.	Studies of the use of research-based expertise in the mass media often demonstrate how experts are used to confirm journalists' angles on particular stories or how research-based knowledge claims are twisted. Both among practitioners and science communication scholars, such practices are often explained with reference to a pervasive "media logic." "Media logic" is constructed as governing choices and interactions of researchers and journalists. This article critically examines the extensive use of the term "media logic" to explain choices, changes or content in media production, and presents Actor-Network-Theory as an approach that invites us to ask what takes place in practice without resorting to such generalizing explanatory devices. The article argues that a quick jump to "media logic" as an explanation may imply that we forget its contingency and ignore what actually takes place in journalists' and researchers' negotiations about texts and facts in the mass mediation of science.

Poberezhskaya, M. (2015). "Media coverage of climate change in Russia: Governmental bias and climate silence." Public Understanding of Science 24(1): 96-111.	This paper explores which actors and factors influence media coverage of climate change in Russia. It does this by analysing the coverage of three events by five Russian national newspapers (Komsomol'skaya pravda, Rossiyskaya gazeta, Izvestiya, Kommersant and Sovetskaya Rossiya). The three events are the Kyoto Conference in 1997, the Copenhagen Conference in 2009 and the Russian heat-wave of 2010. This paper concludes that regardless of the ownership structure of the newspapers or their dependence on advertising, there is little difference in quantity and quality of overall coverage on climate change. With most newspapers relying on Russian officials as information sources, almost none criticise or question Russian climate policy. Furthermore, the article concludes that, in Russia, the omission of climate change issues from discussion in national newspapers becomes a greater problem than biased coverage, as the lack of commentary decidedly prevents these issues from entering the public debate.

Poberezhskaya, M. (2018). "Blogging about Climate Change in Russia: Activism, Scepticism and Conspiracies." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(7): 942-955.	The article explores the new media's role in climate change communication in Russia. By providing an open space for the expression of very diverse points of view, the internet creates a substitute media reality where both climate activists and climate sceptics can question the established discourse. Analysis of 374 entries published on the LiveJournal blogging platform has resulted in the identification of four discursive categories: "conspiracies of climate change," "climate change impact," "political games of climate change" and "online (anti-)environmentalism." Each category demonstrates how the same topic can be framed in very different ways depending on bloggers' worldview rather than the nature of the discussed environmental problem. The findings also show that the blogs act as "echo-chambers" for both climate deniers and climate activists reinforcing their behold beliefs. Finally, the analysis discovers some parallels with the traditional media coverage in their minimal critique of Russian state policy on climate.

Poliakoff, E. and T. L. Webb (2007). "What factors predict scientists' intentions to participate in public engagement of science activities?" Science Communication 29(2): 242-263.	There is a drive for more scientists to engage with the lay public. The authors used an augmented version of the theory of planned behavior and identified three factors that predicted scientists' intentions to participate in public engagement activities, over and above their past actions: attitude (whether participation was regarded as positive), perceived behavioral control (beliefs about whether participation was under their control), and descriptive norms (whether scientists believe their colleagues participate). Factors such as career recognition and time constraints did not significantly predict intentions. These findings will contribute to the design of interventions to promote public engagement.

Pollach, I. (2018). "Issue Cycles in Corporate Sustainability Reporting: A Longitudinal Study." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 247-260.	Issue cycles in media reporting and in the coverage of environmental news in particular have been studied since the 1970s. This study seeks to extend existing theory on issue-attention lifecycles from the news-media domain to the corporate domain by exploring how companies operationalize environmental sustainability over time. Using computer-assisted text analysis, this study investigates 744 corporate environmental reports in a 10-year longitudinal design in order to study how the attention that companies pay to a set of 13 environmental issues shifts over this period. The results indicate discernible issue cycles for almost all of the issues studied. Some issues are in a phase of heightened awareness, others in a punctuated equilibrium following specific events, and even others in a phase of decline. The issue cycles identified suggest that companies pursue their environmental strategies consistently, but shift attention to particular issues as a response to high-profile environmental events. Policy-makers therefore need to be aware of the slowness of changes in corporate environmental strategies.

Poole, R. (2018). "Ecolinguistics, GIS, and Corpus Linguistics for the Analysis of the Rosemont Copper Mine Debate." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(4): 525-540.	This article details an integration of geographical information system (GIS) and corpus linguistics (CL) techniques for an ecolinguistic analysis of a contentious, environmental debate in Arizona, USA. The application of GIS and CL procedures enabled the mapping of place name mentions present within two interest group corpora as well as the mapping of particular meanings and representations of specific places prominent in the debate, that is, maps representing both places and the discursive representations of those places were produced. The corpus-aided analysis and the GIS visualizations exhibit how different interest groups refer to and represent geographical places within their texts and how these references to and representations of places index ideological positions towards the mine and the environment. This integrated CL-GIS approach to the study of environmental discourse provides insights into the discursive representation of place and the importance that references to places serve within environmental discourse. The article briefly discusses the ecolinguistics framework underpinning the work, explains the GIS-CL approach, displays and interprets corpus findings and GIS visualizations, and details implications for additional GIS-CL research for environmental discourse.

Poon, M. and H. Olen (2015). "Does literacy improve finance?" Public Understanding of Science 24(3): 272-284.	When economists ask questions about basic financial principles, most ordinary people answer incorrectly. Economic experts call this condition financial illiteracy, which suggests that poor financial outcomes are due to a personal deficit of reading-related skills. The analogy to reading is compelling because it suggests that we can teach our way out of population-wide financial failure. In this comment, we explain why the idea of literacy appeals to policy makers in the advanced industrial nations. But we also show that the narrow skill set laid out by economists does not satisfy the politically inclusive definition of literacy that literacy studies fought for. We identify several channels through which people engage with ideas about finance and demonstrate that not all forms of literacy will lead people to the educational content prescribed by academic economists. We argue that truly financial literate people can defy the demands of financial theory and financial institutions.

Poortinga, W., et al. (2011). "Awareness and Perceptions of the Risks of Exposure to Indoor Radon: A Population-Based Approach to Evaluate a Radon Awareness and Testing Campaign in England and Wales." Risk Analysis 31(11): 1800-1812.	The current study aimed to evaluate the locally directed radon roll-out program that was conducted between 2001 and 2005 in England and Wales to increase radon awareness and testing rates. A representative sample of 1,578 residents aged 16 and older were interviewed who lived in radon-affected areas of 15 local authorities in England and Wales that were eligible for participation in the program. The study systematically sampled across participating and nonparticipating local authorities, "actionable" and "nonactionable" radon-affected areas, and geographic regions with different campaign histories (Wales, Southwest England, and the rest of England). As a multistage sampling strategy was used, the data were analyzed from a multilevel perspective. This study found that participants living in participating local authorities had higher levels of awareness and were more likely to have tested their home for radon than participants living in nonparticipating local authorities. Similar results were found for participants living in "actionable" areas as compared to those living in "nonactionable" radon-affected areas. The study further found that radon awareness and testing rates were the highest in Southwest England and the lowest in Wales. This study suggests that the radon roll-out program has been effective in raising awareness and testing rates, and that ongoing domestic radon campaigns in Southwest England may have raised radon awareness and testing in these areas, showing important reinforcement effects of multiple risk communication campaigns.

Poortinga, W., et al. (2008). "The perceived health risks of indoor radon gas and overhead powerlines: A comparative multilevel approach." Risk Analysis 28(1): 235-248.	Radon and overhead powerlines are two radiation risk cases that have raised varying levels of concern among the general public and experts. Despite both involving radiation-a typically feared and unseen health hazard-individuals' perceptions of the two risk cases may invoke rather different factors. We examined individual and geographic-contextual factors influencing public perceptions of the health risks of indoor radon gas and overhead powerlines in a comparative research design, utilizing a postal questionnaire with 1,528 members of the general public (response rate 28%) and multilevel modeling techniques. This study found that beliefs about the two risk cases mainly differed according to the level of "exposure"-defined here in terms of spatial proximity. We argue that there are two alternative explanations for this pattern of findings: that risk perception itself varies directly with proximity, or that risk is more salient to concerned people in the exposed areas. We also found that while people living in high radon areas are more concerned about the risks of indoor radon gas, they find these risks more acceptable and have more trust in authorities. These results might reflect the positive effects of successive radon campaigns in high radon areas, which may have raised awareness and concern, and at the same time may have helped to increase trust by showing that the government takes the health risks of indoor radon gas seriously, suggesting that genuine risk communication initiatives may have positive impacts on trust in risk management institutions.

Poortinga, W. and N. F. Pidgeon (2003). "Exploring the dimensionality of trust in risk regulation." Risk Analysis 23(5): 961-972.	This article investigates possible differential levels of trust in government regulation across five different risk contexts and the relationship between a number of concepts that might be thought of as comprising distinctive "dimensions" of trust. It appeared that how people perceive government and its policies toward risk regulation was surprisingly similar for each of the five risk cases. A principal-component analysis showed that the various trust items could best be described by two dimensions: a general trust dimension, which was concerned with a wide range of trust-relevant aspects, such as competence, care, fairness, and openness, and a scepticism component that reflects a sceptical view regarding how risk policies are brought about and enacted. Again, the results were surprisingly similar across the five risk cases, as the same solution was found in each of the different samples. It was also examined whether value similarity has an additional value in predicting trust in risk regulation, compared to the more conventional aspects of trust. Based on the two independent trust factors that were found in this study, a typology of trust is proposed that ranges from full trust to a deep type of distrust. It is argued that for a functioning society it could well be more suitable to have critical but involved citizens in many situations.

Poortinga, W. and N. F. Pidgeon (2005). "Trust in risk regulation: Cause or consequence of the acceptability of GM food?" Risk Analysis 25(1): 199-209.	Although there is ample empirical evidence that trust in risk regulation is strongly related to the perception and acceptability of risk, it is less clear what the direction of this relationship is. This article explores the nature of the relationship, using three separate data sets on perceptions of genetically modified (GM) food among the British public. The article has two discrete but closely interrelated objectives. First, it compares two models of trust. More specifically, it investigates whether trust is the cause (causal chain account) or the consequence (associationist view) of the acceptability of GM food. Second, this study explores whether the affect heuristic can be applied to a wider number of risk-relevant concepts than just perceived risk and benefit. The results suggest that, rather than a determinant, trust is an expression or indicator of the acceptability of GM food. In addition, and as predicted, "affect" accounts for a large portion of the variance between perceived risk, perceived benefit, trust in risk regulation, and acceptability. Overall, the results support the associationist view that specific risk judgments are driven by more general evaluative judgments The implications of these results for risk communication and policy are discussed.

Poortvliet, P. M. and A. M. Lokhorst (2016). "The Key Role of Experiential Uncertainty when Dealing with Risks: Its Relationships with Demand for Regulation and Institutional Trust." Risk Analysis 36(8): 1615-1629.	The results of a survey and an experiment show that experiential uncertaintypeople's experience of uncertainty in risk contextsplays a moderating role in individuals' risk-related demand for government regulation and trust in risk-managing government institutions. First, descriptions of risks were presented to respondents in a survey (N = 1,017) and their reactions to questions about experiential uncertainty, risk perception, and demand for government regulation were measured, as well as levels of risk-specific knowledge. When experiential uncertainty was high, risk perceptions had a positive relationship with demand for government regulation of risk; no such relationship showed under low experiential uncertainty. Conversely, when people experience little experiential uncertainty, having more knowledge about the risk topic involved was associated with a weaker demand for government regulation of risk. For people experiencing uncertainty, this relationship between knowledge and demand for regulation did not emerge. Second, in an experiment (N = 120), experiential uncertainty and openness in risk communication were manipulated to investigate effects on trust. In the uncertainty condition, the results showed that open versus nonopen government communication about Q-fevera zoonosisled to higher levels of trust in the government agency, but not in in the control condition. Altogether, this research suggests that only when people experience relatively little uncertainty about the risk, knowledge provision may preclude them from demanding government action. Also, only when persons experience uncertainty are stronger risk perceptions associated with a demand for government regulation, and they are affected by openness of risk communication in forming institutional trust.

Popli, R. (1999). "Scientific literacy for all citizens: different concepts and contents." Public Understanding of Science 8(2): 123-137.	In this article, three different descriptions of curricula for scientific literacy (SL) are summarized, compared, and critically reviewed from the point of view of their suitability for all citizens. Science for All Americans, a publication of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, envisages giving every citizen a thorough exposure to the world of science, technology, and mathematics; the report Towards Scientific Literacy, published by the International Institute for Adult Literacy Methods, recommends a phenomenological approach to science designed to make science useful for people in their daily lives; and a similar curriculum, Minimum Science for Everybody, published by a voluntary organization in India, provides a detailed alternative conceptual framework for SL in which community traditions and knowledge systems are interfaced with science.
The three reports are seen to differ from one another not only in respect of the contents of the curricula recommended, but also in their approaches, and the world views underlying these different approaches are brought out. It is suggested that SL curricula in both "developed" and "developing" countries be reviewed in the light of the ideas contained in ail three reports in accordance with the needs and circumstances of the people. The article argues for the need to review the nature of science from the perspective of the common citizen.

Porsius, J. T., et al. (2017). ""These Power Lines Make Me Ill": A Typology of Residents' Health Responses to a New High-Voltage Power Line." Risk Analysis 37(12): 2276-2288.	Little attention has been devoted to the potential diversity in residents' health responses when exposed to an uncertain environmental health risk. The present study explores whether subgroups of residents respond differently to a new high-voltage power line (HVPL) being put into operation. We used a quasi-experimental prospective field study design with two pretests during the construction of a new HVPL, and two posttests after it was put into operation. Residents living nearby (0-300 m, n = 229) filled out questionnaires about their health and their perception of the environment. We applied latent class growth models to investigate heterogeneity in the belief that health complaints were caused by a power line. Classes were compared on a wide range of variables relating to negative-oriented personality traits, perceived physical and mental health, and perceptions of the environment. We identified five distinct classes of residents, of which the largest (49%) could be described as emotionally stable and healthy with weak responses to the introduction of a new power line. A considerable minority (9%) responded more strongly to the new line being activated. Residents in this class had heard more about the health effects of power lines beforehand, were more aware of the activation of the new line, and reported a decrease in perceived health afterwards. Based on our findings we can conclude that there is a considerable heterogeneity in health responses to a new HVPL. Health risk perceptions appear to play an important role in this typology, which has implications for risk management.

Porter, N. (2013). ""Single-minded, compelling, and unique": Visual Communications, Landscape, and the Calculated Aesthetic of Place Branding." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(2): 231-254.	Place branding strategies play a significant role in the professional composition of landscape imagery, including the depiction of natural landscapes. In this paper, Brand Blue Mountains, a brand currently implemented in the Blue Mountains region (Australia), is discursively analyzed. The brand sets out an all-encompassing Vision defining the identity, values and personality of the World Heritage listed Blue Mountains landscape, summarized in the tagline Elevate Your Senses. This vision is visually translated into a strictly coordinated and copyrighted suite of logos, graphic design, color, fonts and various photographic styles. Analysis reveals that the degree of control that place brand strategists seek to exert over the visual expression of landscape identity is significant. A highly selective narrative of positive nature-based sensory experience is constructed through the holistic application of contemporary visual media. The brands' communications strategy naturalizes and reinforces a particular market-friendly version of place. The framework that brands set for the representation of landscapes overall amounts to an exercise in calculated aesthetics, whereby the form and content of landscape images of various kinds is measured to achieve the greatest market differentiation and impact which technologies allow. The result of this calculated aesthetic system, with its taglines, saturated color, careful composition and magazine-format brevity, is a reduction in the complexity of landscape representations and a perpetuation of nature stereotypes.

Post, S. (2016). "Communicating science in public controversies: Strategic considerations of the German climate scientists." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 61-70.	In public controversies on scientific issues, scientists likely consider the effects of their findings on journalists and on the public debate. A representative survey of 123 German climate scientists (42%) finds that although most climate scientists think that uncertainties about climate change should be made clearer in public they do not actively communicate this to journalists. Moreover, the climate scientists fear that their results could be misinterpreted in public or exploited by interest groups. Asking scientists about their readiness to publish one of two versions of a fictitious research finding shows that their concerns weigh heavier when a result implies that climate change will proceed slowly than when it implies that climate change will proceed fast.

Post, S. and M. Maier (2016). "Stakeholders' rationales for representing uncertainties of biotechnological research." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 944-960.	Although various stakeholders are involved in public communication about science and technology, research so far has focused on scientists, journalists, and the public. Based on representative telephone surveys of the spokespersons of 55 German companies, 31 government agencies, 43 public interest groups, as well as 105 scientists, we investigated actors' intentions to point out the scientific uncertainty of biotechnological research in their public communications. The different groups of actors' intentions to mention uncertain aspects of biotechnological research in public are guided by different rationales. Scientists and company representatives' intentions to point out uncertainty are strengthened by their hope to promote biotechnological research and weakened by their fear to increase public criticism. Public interest groups' intentions are strengthened by their hope to increase public criticism and are weakened by their fear to promote biotechnological research. Representatives of government agencies are predominantly influenced by their will to do justice to their organizations' interests.

Powell, M., et al. (2007). "Exploring lay uncertainty about an environmental health risk." Public Understanding of Science 16(3): 323-343.	How do laypeople perceive uncertainties about environmental health risks? How do risk-related cognitions and emotions influence these uncertainties, and what roles do sociodemographic and contextual factors, risk judgments, and information exposures play? This study explores these questions using secondary analyses of survey data. Results suggest that uncertainty reflects individual-level emotions and cognitions, but may also be shaped by a variety of social and contextual factors. Emotions (worry and anger) are strongly associated with perceived uncertainty, and perceived lack of knowledge and perceived likelihood of becoming ill are weakly associated with it. Several demographic variables, information exposures, and risk judgment variables affect perceived uncertainty indirectly, primarily through perceived knowledge and emotions. These findings raise a variety of questions about the complex and dynamic interactions among risk contexts, socioeconomic factors, communication processes, perceived knowledge, emotions, and perceived uncertainties about risks.

Powell, M. and D. L. Kleinman (2008). "Building citizen capacities for participation in nanotechnology decision-making: the democratic virtues of the consensus conference model." Public Understanding of Science 17(3): 329-348.	Research suggests that deliberative experiences may improve citizens' perceptions of their abilities to participate meaningfully in political and societal issues. Previous studies, however, have not looked in depth at citizens' perceptions after participating in consensus conferences. In this case study, drawing on in-depth interviews with participants of a consensus conference on nanotechnology, we consider the following questions: 1) How do citizen participants feel the consensus conference experience affected their knowledge and efficacy related to participation in nanotechnology issues? 2) Which aspects of the conference ( if any) do citizens think shaped their knowledge and efficacy? 3) Are citizens motivated to engage in future participatory mechanisms related to nanotechnology issues, and why or why not? Although our case study is exploratory, it suggests that even if consensus conferences have little or no influence on policy or policymakers, they may empower citizens by improving their perceived abilities to participate meaningfully in technoscientific issues.

Powell, M. C. and M. Colin (2008). "Meaningful citizen engagement in science and technology - What would it really take?" Science Communication 30(1): 126-136.	Citizen engagement in scientific and technological issues is in vogue in recent years, and a variety of projects intended to engage citizens in science and technology is occurring worldwide. However, few academics and governments attempting to "engage in engagement" are clear about their goals and desired outcomes, and whether or not the processes they facilitate are likely to meet these ends. What are the goals-explicit and implicit-of institutionally sponsored projects that aim to engage lay citizens in science and technology? Are these exercises likely to meet these goals? and what kinds of processes could nurture more meaningful engagement, what are the barriers to this kind of engagement, and how might these barriers be overcome? Based on the experience of the authors, this article explores these questions and provides 10 recommendations for more meaningful engagement of citizens in science and technology.

Prades, A., et al. (2009). "The siting of a research centre on clean coal combustion and CO2 capture in Spain: Some notes on the relationship between trust and lack of public information." Journal of Risk Research 12(5): 709-723.	This paper aims to gain a better understanding of the role played by trust in the context of scarcity of public information, vis-a-vis the installation of a Centre for Investigation in Advanced Technologies (Centro de Investigacion de Tecnologias Avanzadas, CITA) to be located in a coal-rich region of Spain. Data from semi-structured interviews (n = 15), a questionnaire survey (n = 400) and focus group sessions (2) are drawn together to reveal how the local community perceives the proposed CITA scheme, and how this relates to the level of trust placed in the project promoters. Results illustrate how a lay community gives meaning to an unknown technological project, trying to place it within its appropriate economic, social and political context, and relating it to prior knowledge and experiences. Results also show that, in contrast to certain risk communication theories, the public is able to place trust in a technological activity and their promoters despite a general lack of knowledge on either.

Prainsack, B., et al. (2010). "Attitudes of social science students in Israel and Austria towards the Belated Twins scenario-an exploratory study." Public Understanding of Science 19(4): 435-451.	This article discusses results of a questionnaire survey of 156 university students in Israel and Austria examining reactions towards the Belated Twins scenario, which entails the artificial twinning of embryos of which one is immediately carried to term while the other one is born later. The scenario resembles a case of human reproductive cloning in terms of result (the creation of genetically identical individuals in a time-delayed manner) but it involves gamete fusion like "natural" reproduction. By means of qualitative text analysis we discuss the core themes mobilized both in support and opposition to the scenario. While Israeli and Austrian respondents held similar general attitudes (about half were in favour of legalizing Belated Twins, while about a third opposed it), they drew partly on different arguments to arrive at their conclusions. In both groups, uncertainty stemming from "novel" elements in the scenario was regularly interpreted as negatively exacerbating existing issues.

Prati, G. and L. Pietrantoni (2012). "Predictors of safety behaviour among emergency responders on the highways." Journal of Risk Research 15(4): 405-415.	Safety behaviour is one of the main determinants of job-related accidents. Few studies have focused on safety behaviour of emergency responders. The purpose of this research was to evaluate the impact of psychosocial predictors on safety behaviour, taking into consideration a sample of Italian emergency responders operating on the highways (N = 203). Results showed that adherence to safety procedures, reporting accident risk and use of individual protection devices were predicted by risk perception and safety climate. The attitude of priorities of rescue operations vs. safety predicted reporting accident risk. The conceptual and practical implications that emerged are discussed.

Prati, G., et al. (2011). "A Social-Cognitive Model of Pandemic Influenza H1N1 Risk Perception and Recommended Behaviors in Italy." Risk Analysis 31(4): 645-656.	The outbreak of the pandemic influenza H1N1 2009 (swine flu) between March and April 2009 challenged the health services around the world. Indeed, misconceptions and worries have led the public to refuse to comply with precautionary measures. Moreover, there have been limited efforts to develop models incorporating cognitive, social-contextual, and affective factors as predictors of compliance with recommended behaviors. The aim of this study was to apply a social-cognitive model of risk perception and individual response to pandemic influenza H1N1 in a representative sample of Italian population. A sample of 1,010 Italians of at least 18 years of age took part in a telephone survey. The survey included measures of perceived preparedness of institutions, family members and friends' levels of worry, exposure to media campaigns (social-contextual factors), perceived coping efficacy, likelihood of infection, perceived seriousness, personal impact, and severity of illness (cognitive evaluations), affective response and compliance with recommended behaviors. Results demonstrated that affective response fully mediated the relationship between cognitive evaluations and social-contextual factors (with the exception of exposure to media campaigns) and compliance with recommended behaviors. Perceived coping efficacy and preparedness of institutions were not related to compliance with recommended behaviors.

Prelli, L. J. and T. S. Winters (2009). "Rhetorical Features of Green Evangelicalism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(2): 224-243.	Christian evangelicals and environmentalists are often viewed as holding irreconcilable and mutually exclusive perspectives. We argue that examination of the discourses of environmentalism and an emerging evangelical Christian discourse that we call "green evangelicalism'' shows there are more grounds in common than is typically supposed. Using a conceptual framework that integrates Dryzek's ideas about how to map environmental discourses with Burke's concepts of terministic screens, orientation, and identification, we locate the discursive parameters of a distinctly green evangelicalism as it is manifested in response to the problem of climate change. Comparing the discursive map of green evangelicalism with charts of other environmental discourses enables us to locate rhetorical opportunities and obstacles for generating identification among otherwise distinctive orientations toward environmental problems.

Previs, K. K. (2016). "Gender and Race Representations of Scientists in Highlights for Children: A Content Analysis." Science Communication 38(3): 303-327.	Girls lose interest in science by age 9, and researchers have attributed this finding to misrepresentations of female scientists in the media. While television, film, the Internet, textbooks, and biographies have been analyzed for such representations, this study examines the extent to which females and minorities are portrayed over time in science sections of a popular children's magazine, Highlights for Children. Results indicate that, while males and Whites have outnumbered females and minorities in depictions of science, Highlights has consistently exceeded the number of females and minorities actually employed in scientific fields.

Prevot-Julliard, A. C., et al. (2015). "Historical evidence for nature disconnection in a 70-year time series of Disney animated films." Public Understanding of Science 24(6): 672-680.	The assumed ongoing disconnection between humans and nature in Western societies represents a profoundly challenging conservation issue. Here, we demonstrate one manifestation of this nature disconnection, via an examination of the representation of natural settings in a 70-year time series of Disney animated films. We found that natural settings are increasingly less present as a representation of outdoor environments in these films. Moreover, these drawn natural settings tend to be more and more human controlled and are less and less complex in terms of the biodiversity they depict. These results demonstrate the increasing nature disconnection of the filmmaking teams, which we consider as a proxy of the Western relation to nature. Additionally, because nature experience of children is partly based on movies, the depleted representation of biodiversity in outdoor environments of Disney films may amplify the current disconnection from nature for children. This reduction in exposure to nature may hinder the implementation of biodiversity conservation measures.

Priest, S. (2009). "Curiouser and Curiouser." Science Communication 31(1): 3-5.
	
Priest, S. (2012). "Theme Issue: Nanotechnology Communication Introduction." Science Communication 34(1): 3-4.
	
Priest, S. (2015). "Special Issue: Visual Science Communication in the Digital Age Introduction." Science Communication 37(1): 3-5.
	
Priest, S. H. (1994). "Structuring Public Debate on Biotechnology - Media Frames and Public Response." Science Communication 16(2): 166-179.	A study of themes arising within focus group discussions of U.S. lay publics (both student and nonstudent adults) in response to newspaper coverage of biotechnology is consistent with the assertion that media frames and reader schemas interact to produce an understanding of a newly emerging issue. Newspaper coverage heavily dominated by institutional sources and dealing with only a narrow range of issues may be limiting the terms of public debate in an unhealthy way. Readers reason by analogy with related and sometimes unrelated developments in trying to understand biotechnology, based on schemas reflecting their general understanding of science.

Priest, S. H. (1999). "Science in public: Communication, culture, and credibility." Science Communication 20(4): 448-450.
	
Priest, S. H. (2000). "Commentary: Globalization and science communication." Science Communication 21(3): 219-222.
	
Priest, S. H. (2001). "Misplaced faith - Communication variables as predictors of encouragement for biotechnology development." Science Communication 23(2): 97-110.	Science communicators and the broader scientific community often expect media information campaigns to mold attitudes about science and technology in predictable ways. But resistance to technology is not always based on ignorance, and the ability of media-based education to directly shape opinions is actually quite limited. This article uses data from a recent U.S. national survey on opinions about biotechnology to argue that trust in institutional actors is a bigger factor than genetic knowledge in predicting encouragement for specific applications of biotechnology. The results have implications for the practice of science, as well as for the practice of science communication.

Priest, S. H. (2001). "Cloning: a study in news production." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 59-69.	In retrospect, the 1997 media furor over the cloning of Dolly the sheep was remarkable not so much for any lasting effects on opinion or policy it might have produced as for changing the frame of public debate about biotechnology generally to one that explicitly incorporated ethical considerations. This essay discusses the nature and implications of this shift, based on the author's study of elite US newspaper coverage of this controversy up to and just beyond Dolly's momentary fame. While ethical considerations found their way into mainstream media discourse about biotechnology in ways that had previously been uncommon and that may have had significant influence on the subsequent history of the debate, this happened with little visible long-term disruption of "status quo" institutional control over outcomes. The cloning debate may even have diverted public attention from some aspects of the biotechnology controversy at the same time as it created new public space for ethical debate over others.

Priest, S. H. (2002). "Theme issue: Biotechnology policy formation in Europe and North America." Science Communication 24(2): 141-143.
	
Priest, S. H. (2002). "Issues emerging through the 2002 AAAS roundtable on biotechnology policy formation in Europe and North America." Science Communication 24(2): 222-228.	A roundtable discussion on biotechnology policy formation in Europe and North America was held at the 2002 annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Boston. The panel members present represented linked research teams studying media, opinion, and public policy formation in Canada, the United States, Austria, Finland, Norway, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom; additional contributions were made to this effort by colleagues in France and Germany who were unable to attend the roundtable in person. Audience response generated many new questions and a few potential answers regarding public involvement in science policy development.

Priest, S. H. (2005). "Commentary - Room at the bottom of pandora's box: Peril and promise in communicating nanotechnology." Science Communication 27(2): 292-299.
	
Priest, S. H. (2005). "Biotechnology - The untold stories?" Science Communication 26(3): 326-332.
	
Priest, S. H. (2006). "Public discourse and scientific controversy - A spiral-of-silence analysis of biotechnology opinion in the United States." Science Communication 28(2): 195-215.	Spiral-of-silence theory tries to account for the dynamics through which visible dissent decreases as public opinion begins to appear hegemonic; it argues that fear of social isolation inhibits the expression of opinions perceived to be in the minority. This analysis applies spiral-of-silence theory to public opinion about biotechnology in the United States. Although comparisons to Europe may disguise this fact, a substantial minority of United States citizens have reservations about biotechnology and genetic engineering. Our exploratory analysis reveals some evidence that a spiral of silence developed for these issues, as well as uncovering more willingness to speak among those who believe themselves more knowledgeable about science and differences in willingness among groups who apply different forms of moral reasoning to biotechnology issues. The results have implications for recognizing the privileged position of consequentialist or utilitarian arguments about science and technology in United States society.

Priest, S. H. (2006). "The public opinion climate for gene technologies in Canada and the United States: competing voices, contrasting frames." Public Understanding of Science 15(1): 55-71.	This exploratory study of Canadian and US public opinion about gene technologies is based primarily on survey data collected by the Government of Canada, with media data from a widely available commercial database (LexisNexis) used in an illustrative case study of the apparent resonance between the climate of opinion and media frames in different regions of the two countries. The study uses regression modeling, factor analysis and cluster analysis to characterize the structure of the opinion data, concluding that observed opinion differences might be understood in terms of the greater number of individuals in the United States who belong to an identifiable opinion group that believes these technologies are benign and must be developed (termed, for convenience, "true believers"), as well as a somewhat greater number in Canada who belong to a group believing that ordinary people should be able to decide based on ethical considerations ("ethical populists"). However, the most common group in each country is made up of people who believe risks or costs and benefits should be weighed in developing policy, and that this should be done by experts ("utilitarians"). This group and two other cluster groups identified in the analysis ("moral authoritarians" and "democratic pragmatists") exist in roughly equivalent proportions in both countries, with some regional variation evident within each. While these observations represent descriptive findings only, they nevertheless underscore the complexity of the opinion climate and problematize the development of consensus policy. Preliminary analysis of news coverage of selected gene technologies revealed both similarities and differences in patterns of news discourse between Canada and the US. A sample of stem cell coverage for February 2004, following the American Association for the Advancement of Science meeting in Seattle (during which the announcement of new Korean research on human cloning was made), was used as a case study for a pilot media analysis.

Priest, S. H. (2007). "Science communication: From your new editor." Science Communication 29(2): 145-146.
	
Priest, S. H. (2007). "Nano-hype: The truth behind the nanotechnology buzz." Science Communication 28(3): 420-423.
	
Priest, S. H. (2008). "Communicating nature: How we create and understand environmental messages." Science Communication 29(3): 404-405.
	
Priest, S. H. (2013). "Little by Little: Expansions of Nanoscience and Emerging Nanotechnologies." Science Communication 35(6): 821-821.
	
Priest, S. H. (2013). "Climate Change Politics: Communication and Public Engagement." Science Communication 35(6): 820-821.
	
Priest, S. H. (2013). "Science on American Television: A History." Science Communication 35(6): 821-821.
	
Priest, S. H. (2013). "Science Centres and Science Events: A Science Communication Handbook." Science Communication 35(6): 820-820.
	
Priest, S. H. (2013). "Science Communication: A Practical Guide for Scientists." Science Communication 35(6): 819-820.
	
Priest, S. H. (2013). "The Culture of Science: How the Public Relates to Science Across the Globe." Science Communication 35(6): 819-819.
	
Priest, S. H. (2014). "Climate Change: A Communication Challenge for the 21st Century." Science Communication 36(3): 267-269.
	
Priest, S. H. (2017). "Of Note: Recent Books." Science Communication 39(3): 404-406.
	
Priest, S. H. (2017). "Editor's Note: Another Solid Year for Science Communication." Science Communication 39(1): 3-9.
	
Pringle, K. E., et al. (2004). "An examination of infrastructures for health information dissemination in the United States." Science Communication 25(3): 227-245.	The U.S. federal government has devoted substantial resources to health promotion and disease prevention research, yet there is currently no systematic published information about the infrastructures through which this research is disseminated to local levels. This article addresses that gap by using a common framework (Dynamic Network) developed by Miles and Snow to examine five national health information networks: the Regional Alcohol and Drug Awareness Resource (RADAR) Network, the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America (CADCA), the Children's Safety Network (CSN), the Office on Smoking and Health's National Tobacco Control Program (NTCP), and the Network: Addressing Collegiate Alcohol and Other Drug Issues (the Network). All of these networks include members with areas of specialized expertise, enabling them to address complex health issues. A single, federally funded entity typically functions as a broker for the networks, facilitating member communication at the national and local levels. Four of the five networks do not fund members but instead rely on a shared commitment to health promotion goals. Finally, each network is experimenting with ways of providing broad information access to their members and thus building local capacity to support healthy behaviors.

Prosser, H. (2010). "Marvelous medicines and dangerous drugs: the representation of prescription medicine in the UK newsprint media." Public Understanding of Science 19(1): 52-69.	Using discourse analysis, this study examines the representation of prescription medicines in the UK newsprint media and, specifically, how the meaning and function of medicines are constructed. At the same time, it examines the extent to which the newsprint media represents a resource for health information, and considers how it may encourage or challenge faith in modern medicine and medical authority. As such, it extends analysis around concepts such as the informed patient and examines the representation of patients and doctors and the extent to which patient-doctor identities promoted in the newsprint media reflect a shift away from paternalism to negotiated encounters. Findings show the media constructs a discrete, contradictory, and frequently oversimplified set of characterizations about medicine. Moreover, it discursively constructs realities that justify and sustain medial dominance. Ideological paradigms in discourse assign patients as passive and disempowered while simultaneously privileging "expert" knowledge. This constructs a reality that marginalizes patients' participation in decision-making.

Provencal, J. (2011). "Extending the reach of research as a public good: Moving beyond the paradox of "zero-sum language games"." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 101-116.	Extending the reach of research as a public good has become widely recognized as a policy priority for research funding organizations in many nations. Yet, there is little academic merit given to such work, presenting scholars with the paradox of a "zero-sum language game" in which they succeed in mobilizing knowledge across discourse communities-such as governments, industry, media, community organizations and the public-at the cost of their success within academic discourse communities. To illustrate this paradox, the article places some focus on the "knowledge mobilization" priority for the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) of Canada. The article offers an intersection of discourse theory and game theory to consider how members of academic discourse communities can be understood as players in language games, positioned to make "moves" that change the game-rules, that in turn, permit changes to what are recognized as legitimate, academic discursive practices.

Prpic, K. (2011). "Science, the public, and social elites: How the general public, scientists, top politicians and managers perceive science." Public Understanding of Science 20(6): 733-750.	This paper finds that the Croatian public's and the social elites' perceptions of science are a mixture of scientific and technological optimism, of the tendency to absolve science of social responsibility, of skepticism about the social effects of science, and of cognitive optimism and skepticism. However, perceptions differ significantly according to the different social roles and the wider value system of the observed groups. The survey data show some key similarities, as well as certain specificities in the configuration of the types of views of the four groups - the public, scientists, politicians and managers. The results suggest that the well-known typology of the four cultures reveals some of the ideologies of the key actors of scientific and technological policy. The greatest social, primarily educational and socio-spatial, differentiation of the perceptions of science was found in the general public.

Purroy, J. (2001). "Dislocacions." Public Understanding of Science 10(4): 441-442.
	
Putsche, L., et al. (2017). ""You End Up Feeling Like the Rest of the World Is Kind of Picking on You": Perceptions of Regulatory Science's Threats to Economic Livelihoods and Idahoans' Collective Identity." Science Communication 39(6): 687-712.	This article contributes to research on public attitudes toward science, specifically science distrust, by analyzing responses from focus group interviews conducted in the U.S. state of Idaho. Idahoans share a collective cultural identity that values self-sufficiency, independence, and conservative suspicion of government. Content analysis of focus group transcripts from 12 urban and rural communities across Idaho show that regulatory science evokes the highest levels of distrust among participants, as they threaten economic livelihoods and Idahoans' collective identification with independence and the industries on which Idaho's economy was built.

Qin, W. and J. L. Brown (2006). "Consumer opinions about genetically engineered salmon and information effect on opinions - A qualitative approach." Science Communication 28(2): 243-272.	American consumers remain uninformed about genetically engineered (GE) foods, raising the prospect of their rejection based on outrage rather than risk. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is considering introduction of GE salmon into the food supply, an animal application likely to raise consumer concerns. As the first step in designing balanced information to help consumers reach informed opinions about GE salmon, we held eleven focus group discussions to compare the effect of limited (six groups) and detailed (five groups) information on the participants' formulated consequences of this GE application. The results suggested that an effective communication piece about a specific GE application should contain basic and specific, including process- and product-related, information to help the recipient formulate consequences, and hence, opinions. It should also incorporate multiple viewpoints on certain and uncertain consequences to increase perceptions of source trustworthiness and help consumers reach informed opinions.

Qin, W. and J. L. Brown (2007). "Public reactions to information about genetically engineered foods: effects of information formats and male/female differences." Public Understanding of Science 16(4): 471-488.	Developing effective communication strategies to inform the public about genetic engineering applications in food production is critical for the successful commercialization and future development of the technology. However, few existing studies in the United States have examined how communication materials affect public understanding of new technologies. Our survey study examined the effect of two information formats developed according to public issue education principles on the public understanding of, interest in and attitude towards genetically engineered salmon. In addition, we examined male/female differences in attitude. Our results indicated that participants who read the "consequence" information learned more, expressed more interest, and indicated higher level of actual confidence in judgment than those who read the "perspective" information. Women were less approving of genetically engineered salmon than men were both before and after reading the information. Reading information led to a positive change in attitude although the effect size was not different between sexes. The male/female difference was likely due to women's higher level of concern about effects on humans and greater trust of environmental groups compared to men's. Suggestions for designing an effective print communication about a specific genetic engineering application are presented.

Quet, M. (2014). "Science to the people! (and experimental politics): Searching for the roots of participatory discourse in science and technology in the 1970s in France." Public Understanding of Science 23(6): 628-645.	The current conception of political participation in governmental institutions is deeply marked by the notions of deliberation and precaution. This normative conception of participatory politics neglects, backgrounds or disqualifies other participatory practices, in so far as they are not connected to deliberation and precaution. However, participation has not always been defined in such a restricted way: the current conception of participation is a product of the 1980s and 1990s. In this paper, the meaning ascribed to the notion of participation in the 1970s in France is explored through the study of discourses produced in three fields: the Science Policy Division of the OECD, the French radical science movement, and the emerging STS academic field. As is shown, some of the bases of the current notion of participation originate in the 1970s. Nevertheless, it is argued that in these years, the notion of participation has more to do with experimentation than with deliberation and precaution. Therefore, the conception of participation in the 1970s differs greatly from the current one. Methodologically, this paper combines tools offered by the social history of science and the French school of discourse analysis.

Quet, M. (2015). "It will be a disaster! How people protest against things which have not yet happened." Public Understanding of Science 24(2): 210-224.	In the field of science and technology studies, recent works have analyzed the multiplication of promises and predictions as a major evolution of science management. The authors involved in this sociology of technical expectations have documented the role played by promises in the elaboration of scientific projects and their impact on the social reception of scientific issues. Yet, little attention has been paid to the predictions regarding undesirable technological futures. This article proposes therefore to analyze the discursive and argumentative practices through which journalists, scientists, and politicians denounce and propose to counter a public issue which does not exist yet: gene doping (no case of gene doping has been recorded to date). After a literature review of the field of the sociology of technological expectations and a presentation of the corpus, the article describes the structure of predictions and analyzes the discursive strategies according to which social actors predict a disaster in the making. The analysis is based on the study of media discourses about gene doping, in a corpus of 163 French language articles from European newspapers, published between 1998 and 2012.

Quin, M. (2000). "Communicating science, vol 1, professional contexts." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 336-337.
	
Raber, E., et al. (2002). "Chemical and biological agent incident response and decision process for civilian and public sector facilities." Risk Analysis 22(2): 195-202.	In the event of a terrorist attack or catastrophic release involving potential chemical and/or biological warfare agents, decisionmakers will need to make timely and informed choices about whether, or how, to respond. The objective of this article is to provide a decision framework to specify initial and follow-up actions, including possible decontamination, and to address long-term health and environmental issues. This decision framework consists of four phases, beginning with the identification of an incident and ending with verification that cleanup and remediation criteria have been met. The flowchart takes into account both differences and similarities among potential agents or toxins at key points in the decisionmaking process. Risk evaluation and communication of information to the public must be done throughout the process to ensure a successful effort.

Rabinovich, A. and T. A. Morton (2012). "Unquestioned Answers or Unanswered Questions: Beliefs About Science Guide Responses to Uncertainty in Climate Change Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 32(6): 992-1002.	In two experimental studies we investigated the effect of beliefs about the nature and purpose of science (classical vs. Kuhnian models of science) on responses to uncertainty in scientific messages about climate change risk. The results revealed a significant interaction between both measured (Study 1) and manipulated (Study 2) beliefs about science and the level of communicated uncertainty on willingness to act in line with the message. Specifically, messages that communicated high uncertainty were more persuasive for participants who shared an understanding of science as debate than for those who believed that science is a search for absolute truth. In addition, participants who had a concept of science as debate were more motivated by higher (rather than lower) uncertainty in climate change messages. The results suggest that achieving alignment between the general public's beliefs about science and the style of the scientific messages is crucial for successful risk communication in science. Accordingly, rather than uncertainty always undermining the effectiveness of science communication, uncertainty can enhance message effects when it fits the audience's understanding of what science is.

Racine, E., et al. (2006). "Brain imaging - A decade of coverage in the print media." Science Communication 28(1): 122-143.	Advances in neuroscience are increasingly intersecting with issues of ethical, legal, and social interest. This study is an analysis of press coverage of an advanced technology for brain imaging, functional magnetic resonance imaging, that has gained significant public visibility over the past ten years. Discussion of issues of scientific validity and interpretation dominated over ethical content in both the popular and specialized press. Coverage of research on higher order cognitive phenomena specifically attributed broad personal and societal meaning to neuroimages. The authors conclude that neuroscience provides an ideal model for exploring science communication and ethics in a multicultural context.

Radchuk, O., et al. (2017). "Homo Politicus meets Homo Ludens: Public participation in serious life science games." Public Understanding of Science 26(5): 531-546.	Public participation in science and gamification of science are two strong contemporary trends, especially in the area of emerging techno-sciences. Involvement of the public in research-related activities is an integral part of public engagement with science and technologies, which can be successfully achieved through a participatory game design. Focusing on the participatory dimension of educational games, we have reviewed a number of existing participation heuristics in light of their suitability to characterize available mobile and browser science games. We analyzed 87 games with respect to their participatory and motivational elements and demonstrated that the majority of mobile games have only basic participative features. This review of the landscape of participative science games in the domain of life sciences highlights a number of major challenges present in the design of such applications. At the same time, it reveals a number of opportunities to enhance public engagement using science games.

Radosevic, S. (2001). "One hundred and thirty years of catching up with the west: A comparative perspective on Hungarian industry, science and technology policy-making since industrialization." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 248-249.
	
Rahman, S. (2011). "Land, Water, and Food: Eco-cosmopolitan Feminist Praxis in Sabiha Sumar's Khamosh Pani." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(2): 187-201.	In an attempt to address the violence against women in South Asia while also keeping the environment in mind, I argue that Sabiha Sumar's film Khamosh Pani resists both religious nationalism and global capitalism through an eco-cosmopolitan feminist stance that is grounded in a materiality of place signified by land, water, and food. In my reading, the eco-cosmopolitan feminism of this film critiques patriarchy in the Punjab across the border with India and, simultaneously, remains locally grounded in that place with its local language, customs, and religious practices. As the history of the partition of British India has shown, when fathers and brothers forced their women to commit suicide by jumping in the village well to avoid rape, they simultaneously poisoned the well-water as the men migrated across the border. Violence against women was also violence against the waters of the Punjab. After showing how the film is feminist, I discuss how it draws attention to the materiality of the Pakistani Punjab on eco-cosmopolitan feminist terms. Specifically, I demonstrate that portrayals of land, water, and food present crucial tensions between patriarchal and nationalist Islamization and the resistance of Pakistan's women to these forces. An eco-cosmopolitan feminist reading of this film is particularly significant at this time given the continued violence against women in Punjab in the name of honor.

Ranger, M. and K. Bultitude (2016). "'The kind of mildly curious sort of science interested person like me': Science bloggers' practices relating to audience recruitment." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 361-378.	With at least 150million professional and amateur blogs on the Internet, blogging offers a potentially powerful tool for engaging large and diverse audiences with science. This article investigates science blogging practices to uncover key trends, including bloggers' self-perceptions of their role. Interviews with seven of the most popular science bloggers revealed them to be driven by intrinsic personal motivations. Wishing to pursue their love of writing and share their passion for science, they produce content suitable for niche audiences of science enthusiasts, although they do not assume background scientific knowledge. A content analysis of 1000 blog posts and comparison with the most popular blogs on the Internet further confirmed this result and additionally identified key factors that affect science blog popularity, including update frequency, topic diversity and the inclusion of non-text elements (especially images and video).

Raps, B. G. (2016). "In science communication, why does the idea of a public deficit always return?" Public Understanding of Science 25(4): 460-464.	Taking Isabelle Stengers' "ecology of practices" as an inspiration, the author answers the question animating the essay competition in four ways, each (it is hoped) generating progressively more inter+est between the communities concerned.

Ratto, M. (2006). "Foundations and profiles: splicing metaphors in genetic databases and biobanks." Public Understanding of Science 15(1): 31-53.	In this paper we explore new developments in genomics, in particular the move from data sequencing efforts like the Human Genome Project (HGP), to newer forms of data-driven genomic work that focus explicitly on the complicated relationship between genes and environment. We compare the use of a key term within the HGP, the metaphor of "foundation," to the use of a different term, the metaphor of "profile," within the GenomEUtwin consortium, an exemplar of "post-genomic" projects. By doing so, we attempt to re-think the role of language and metaphor in scientific projects and explore new developments in post-genomic research. These developments include: first, the movement towards an explicit and programmatic acknowledgement of the complexity of gene and trait relationships, second, the use of bio-informatics techniques as exploratory tools of discovery rather than as part of a more straightforward "decoding" effort, third, the development of network infrastructures that link up and provide access to a vast array of different databases, and fourth, the alignment between various disciplines and interests within biology, clinical work, and public health initiatives. We use the metaphor of "splicing" to emphasize the heterogeneous work of scientists engaged in "weaving together" the diverse set of ideas, interests, and players necessary for the success of large-scale scientific projects.

Rautio, P. (2011). "Writing about Everyday Beauty: Anthropomorphizing and Distancing as Literary Practices." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(1): 104-123.	In this paper two ways to communicate a relation to one's everyday life environment are discussed: anthropomorphizing and distancing. Both are often thought to convey hierarchically anthropocentric relations to nature and as such to be undesired. The basis of this paper is empirical research conducted in a small northern Finnish village. Four villagers participated in writing letters about beauty in their everyday lives. In this paper the letters of two participants are discussed in detail. I conclude that anthropomorphism and distancing serve as literary practices of negotiating a meaningful relation to one's everyday life environment by conceptually framing the interplay of one's perceived proximity to and distance from the not-her.

Ravarotto, L., et al. (2016). "Reducing microbiological risk in the kitchen: piloting consensus conference methodology as a communication strategy." Journal of Risk Research 19(7): 934-950.	Foodborne diseases are a major public health problem. Improper storage and food preparation at home can favour microbial contamination of food. Consumers play a crucial role in controlling this risk. To reduce exposure to risk, it is essential to provide information and guidance on contamination management in the home. The aim of this study was to pilot a method of participatory communication addressed to young consumers and designed to reduce the microbiological risks associated with the consumption of meat products. The methodology was based on application of the consensus conference' model on food safety issues. The consensus conference served not only as a participatory strategy to share knowledge but also as a method for sharing in the development of risk communication content (guidelines) to be disseminated to the reference target. Young people's perceptions, habits and behaviour in the kitchen were explored in the preparatory stage of the consensus conference by means of a survey and a focus group. Three consensus conferences were held in Italy attended by 60 university students (19 and 22years old). Application of the consensus conference model as a communication process proved to be an effective opportunity to engage young consumers and experts on the topic of food safety. This discursive participation approach was broadly welcomed by the participants. Specifically, direct interaction with the experts was considered to be an important part of the communication process. The findings of the project were used to select concise communication content based on the perceptions, behaviours and fact-finding needs of the selected target. Publication of this content in the form of guidelines on microbiological risk management at home has enabled the results of the consensus conferences to be extended and the targeted communication material on risk reduction in daily food handling practices to be disseminated.

Ravetz, J. (2000). "The governance of science: Ideology and the future of the open society." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 335-335.
	
Ravetz, J. (2001). "Risk communication and public health." Public Understanding of Science 10(3): 335-336.
	
Ravetz, J. (2001). "Newton's forgotten lunar theory: His contribution to the quest for longitude." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 146-146.
	
Raymond, L. and A. Delshad (2016). "Normative Framing and Public Attitudes toward Biofuels Policies." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(4): 508-524.	Although the power of elite issue frames to shape public attitudes toward different policies is well established, the relative influence of different types of frames in competitive framing environments remains uncertain. For example, we do not fully understand the relative influence of economic versus normative frames on the public's policy attitudes, despite the common use of both types of frames to promote the same policy in many settings. Using data from a 2010 national Internet survey, this paper investigates the relative influence of economic versus normative frames on public attitudes toward the contentious policy issue of biofuels. The results indicate the importance of normative frames in shaping public attitudes on this issue, suggesting the relevance of normative frames more generally in shaping public opinion beyond the narrow confines of typical " morality" policies such as abortion or gambling.

Raza, G., et al. (1997). "Kaleidoscoping public understanding of science on hygiene, health and plague: A survey in the aftermath of a plague epidemic in India." Public Understanding of Science 6(3): 247-267.	In September 1994 a plague epidemic hit a number of cities in India. Though the spread of the disease was controlled within a short period of about one month, its influences on various channels of information, on the functioning of government departments (especially health and sanitation), on the scientific community and on people's scientific information level were remarkable. This paper analyses the responses of 1127 individuals interviewed in December 1994. The data indicates high levels of informedness about health, hygiene and plague, with little reference to extra-scientific explanations of the causes of the epidemic. Respondents expressed a high degree of confidence in the modem system of medicine. From this analysis we also infer that the public could not be described as 'superstitious', 'unscientific' or 'unhygienic': only when denied access to information and civic amenities did they show extra-scientific thinking or 'unhygienic' behaviour.

Raza, G., et al. (2002). "Public, science, and cultural distance." Science Communication 23(3): 293-309.	This article attempts to define cultural distance and proposes a method to empirically measure it. Using the survey data on perceptions of common citizens, the authors measure this distance in this article by the number of years spent informal schooling. Cultural distances based on people's explanations of various natural phenomena have been mapped to demonstrate efficacy of the proposed method. The authors argue that the determinants of the magnitude of the cultural distance are (1) the complexity involved in explaining a phenomenon, (2) its life cycle, (3) individual or a collective control that can be exercised to alter the life cycle, and (4) the intensity with which a phenomenon intervenes in the dally life of common citizens.

Read, D., et al. (1994). "What Do People Know About Global Climate-Change .2. Survey Studies of Educated Laypeople." Risk Analysis 14(6): 971-982.	Drawing on results from earlier studies that used open-ended interviews, a questionnaire was developed to examine laypeople's knowledge about the possible causes and effects of global warming, as well as the likely efficacy of possible interventions.  It was administered to two well-educated opportunity samples of laypeople.  Subjects had a poor appreciation of the facts that (1) if significant global warming occurs, it will be primarily the result of an increase in the concentration of carbon dioxide in the earth's atmosphere, and (2) the single most important source of additional carbon dioxide is the combustion of fossil fuels, most notably coal and oil.  In addition, their understanding of the climate issue was encumbered with secondary, irrelevant, and incorrect beliefs.  Of these, the two most critical are confusion with the problems of stratospheric ozone and difficulty in differentiating between causes and actions specific to climate and more general good environmental practice.

Read, D. and M. G. Morgan (1998). "The efficacy of different methods for informing the public about the range dependency of magnetic fields from high voltage power lines." Risk Analysis 18(5): 603-610.	The AC electric and magnetic fields associated with high voltage power lines have become a concern as a possible health risk; In most cases the strength of these fields decreases as the inverse square of the distance from the line. In earlier work, we found that laypeople do not understand how rapidly field strength decreases with distance. Most believe that any high voltage power line they can see is exposing them to strong fields. This paper confirms the earlier finding and explores a number of strategies which might be used in risk communications to correct this misperception. We found it relatively easy to provide subjects with a better understanding of the range-dependency of magnetic field strength. Moreover, the quality of this acquisition was apparently independent of the manner in which they were instructed. Such successful instruction is markedly different from the well-established difficulty of teaching people about many qualitative domains, such as physics or ideas in probability. Clearly, while some erroneous beliefs are highly resistant to change, others can be altered quite readily. We suspect that an important distinction between knowledge about the range-dependency of power+frequency magnetic fields and less tractable topics involves the presence or absence of prior folk-theories or "mental models" of the domain.

Rebich-Hespanha, S., et al. (2015). "Image Themes and Frames in US Print News Stories about Climate Change." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(4): 491-519.	Research on frames in climate change (CC) news coverage has advanced substantially over the past decade, but the emerging understanding of the framing role of visual imagery that often accompanies news texts remains fragmented. We report on a set of image frames identified through content analysis of 350 images associated with 200 news articles from 11 US newspaper and magazine sources from 1969 through late 2009. We reliably identified and quantified the occurrence of 118 image themes. We then hierarchically clustered the themes based on their co-occurrence in images to identify an integrated framework of 42 image frames. We highlight frames associated with particular types of images (e.g., photographs and maps) or geographic regions. From among the full set of frames, we identify 15 that commonly appear in US CC news imagery and discuss the ways in which image frames make salient (or render invisible) particular categories of people, geographic regions, aspects of science, and spheres of activity.

Reeves, C. (2002). "An orthodox heresy - Scientific rhetoric and the science of prions." Science Communication 24(1): 98-122.	A significant theoretical shift in the research community examining a class of terminal, infectious neurological disorders that includes Mad Cow Disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, and Kuru was assisted by rhetorical production. The local rhetoric of one laboratory, that of Professor Stanley B. Prusiner involved first situating an heretical hypothesis within the framework of the orthodox narrative and then audaciously promoting that heresy. Another aspect of rhetorical production in this case involved situating a new language associated with the heretical hypothesis. To promote their new lexicon, the Prusiner team evoked orthodox values of consistency, efficiency, and collective ratification. Eventually, what was once heresy became dogma; what was once a lexicon employed by a minority in the field was adopted by the majority.

Regan, A., et al. (2016). "Risk communication and social media during food safety crises: a study of stakeholders' opinions in Ireland." Journal of Risk Research 19(1): 119-133.	Social media is a particular communication platform which has witnessed an exponential growth in use and influence in recent years, democratising the communication process, and offering risk communicators a way of putting into practice those principles which are advocated to be at the core of risk management and communication. However, little is known about stakeholders' willingness to embrace this new form of communication in a food crisis. The current study presented an exploratory investigation of the opinions of Irish stakeholders on the position of risk communication in a crisis, with a particular focus on understanding what application social media may have. In-depth one-to-one interviews were carried out with key stakeholders holding frontline positions in managing and communicating about risk in the food sector in Ireland. The stakeholders identified risk communication as a central activity in a food safety crisis, driven by an obligation to protect both consumer health and the reputation of the Irish food sector. Stakeholders relied primarily on risk communication to disseminate information in a crisis so to educate and inform the public on a risk and to prevent confusion and alarmism; most did not explicitly value two-way risk communication in a crisis. The ability to effectively manage future crises may depend on stakeholders' willingness to adapt to the changing communication landscape, namely - their willingness to adopt social media and use it effectively. The findings indicate that the stakeholders interviewed are appreciative of the need to engage with social media in times of a food safety crisis. However, most valued social media as a one-way channel to help spread a message and there was little reference to the interactive nature of this medium. Implications for integrating social media into crisis risk communication strategies are discussed.

Reid, G. (2012). "The television drama-documentary (dramadoc) as a form of science communication." Public Understanding of Science 21(8): 984-1001.	This article examines the dramadoc genre's potential to enhance public understanding of science. It focuses on a case study of the UK dramadoc If...Cloning Could Cure Us, which employed a combination of fictionalised drama, documentary interviews and interactive features to explore uses of human cloning in stem cell research. The author conducted 20 focus group screenings of the programme to examine the impact that the dramadoc had on people's knowledge and opinions. Results show that although critics claim that the genre's combination of fact and fiction will lead audiences to misunderstandings, the dramadoc also has the potential to increase people's scientific understandings. New understandings, however, do not necessarily translate into more favourable attitudes towards the topic. The article concludes by arguing that in spite of the programme's achievements in improving public understanding of science, the dramadoc could have gone further to engage audiences in genuine dialogue about the new technology.

Reilly, A. H. and N. Larya (2018). "External Communication About Sustainability: Corporate Social Responsibility Reports and Social Media Activity." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(5): 621-637.	External communication about corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability activities may vary significantly across firms. Communication channel, content, and frequency may reflect a company's resource allocation priorities, its culture, and its leadership in the sustainability domain. This empirical research compares n=11 global consumer apparel companies, with brands ranging from Adidas to Prada to Wrangler, in terms of their communication about CSR and sustainability in both formal outlets (annual CSR reports), informal channels (Twitter and Facebook social media), and voluntary participation in external rankings (the Global Reporting Initiative). In addition, the sample is divided into High-Ranked and Low-Ranked subsamples, using Newsweek's Greenest Companies 2014 rankings, to examine if companies ranked highly by Newsweek communicate more often and display higher levels of engagement in sustainability reporting, compared to low-ranked firms. Results provide support for our research propositions. We conclude with recommendations for companies seeking to strengthen their CSR external communication.

Reiner, D. M. (2015). "Where can I go to see one? Risk communications for an ` imaginary technology'." Journal of Risk Research 18(6): 710-713.
	
Reis, R. (1999). "Environmental news - Coverage of the earth summit by Brazilian newspapers." Science Communication 21(2): 137-155.	This article examines how two important Brazilian newspapers covered the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (Earth Summit). Overall, 649 news items were content analyzed to determine the type of sources used, as well as the kind of issues covered. The analysis showed that government officials were the most frequently cited sources, while environmentalists and scientists were all but ignored as news sources. The analysis also indicated that economic issues were surprisingly prominent in the coverage. These results are compatible with previous studies done in several countries and indicate that environmental media are still extremely reliant on "official" voices. The findings also highlight the fact that the range of issues covered by the environmental media largely reflects the perceived public agenda.

Reis, R. (2008). "How Brazilian and north American newspapers frame the stem cell research debate." Science Communication 29(3): 316-334.	Stem cell research has become one of the hottest scientific topics in the past few years. By combining the ability to exactly self-duplicate and the potential to differentiate themselves to constitute any organic tissue, embryonic stem cells have presented geneticists and medical researchers with a new wealth of possibilities to treat and cure degenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. By relying heavily on discarded embryonic lines, stem cell research has also generated a new host of ethical and political controversies. The concept of media frames was employed to analyze how some of the main Brazil- and U.S.-based newspapers have framed and presented the stem cell research debate. The analysis indicates that while in Brazil the issue has been presented from a scientific (and mostly positive) point of view, in the United States the debate has been dominated by its political and ethical dimensions.

Reis, R. (2009). "Brazilian NGO Creates Innovative Social Carbon Methodology." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(2): 270-275.	This essay includes an introduction of the concept "Social Carbon'' and the groundbreaking work of the Brazilian non-profit organization, Instituto Ecologica, on developing this idea as a response to global climate change.

Remenick, L. (2018). "The Role of Communication in Preparation for Wildland Fire: A Literature Review." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 164-176.	Fire regimes are needed for healthy forest ecosystems, but citizens who live parallel to public forests do not always understand or favour the mechanisms land managers use for fire prevention and preparation. One way that land managers and citizens may share concerns and overcome barriers is through effective communication, allowing both parties to adequately prepare for a wildfire event. While collaboration between land managers and citizens has been well studied, the research on communication between citizens and among land managers is less prevalent yet equally important. The lack of research on communication between these parties creates an incomplete picture of the spectrum of communication that takes place in preparation for a wildland fire event. This paper reviews the current literature on communication between and among citizens and land managers before a wildfire event.

Ren, J., et al. (2014). "Similar challenges but different responses: Media coverage of measles vaccination in the UK and China." Public Understanding of Science 23(4): 366-375.	For several decades scholars have studied media reporting on scientific issues that involve controversy. Most studies so far have focused on the western world. This article tries to broaden the perspective by considering China and comparing it to a western country. A content analysis of newspaper coverage of vaccination issues in the UK and China shows, first, that the government-supported 'mainstream position' dominates the Chinese coverage while the British media frequently refer to criticism and controversy. Second, scientific expertise in the British coverage is represented by experts from the health and science sector but by experts from health agencies in the Chinese coverage. These results are discussed with respect to implications for risk communication and scientists' involvement in public communication.

Renn, O. (2006). "Risk communication - Consumers between information and irritation." Journal of Risk Research 9(8): 833-849.	Health risks are front-page news. Be it BSE, surface ozone or radiation from transmitter stations or mobile phones, the popular press puts out a constant stream of risk warnings and sensational reports about potential health threats. This article looks at how the general public perceives and assesses such information when it comes to food risks. In the first part, the elements of food risks are discussed and then compared with the perceptions of these risks. The last part of the paper deals with the consequences of risk assessments and risk perceptions for risk management and risk communication.

Renn, O. (2014). "Four questions for risk communication: a response to Roger Kasperson." Journal of Risk Research 17(10): 1277-1281.
	
Renn, O. and C. Benighaus (2013). "Perception of technological risk: insights from research and lessons for risk communication and management." Journal of Risk Research 16(3-4): 293-313.	Technology has become a familiar companion in all areas of life. Production consumption, administration, education, communication, and leisure activities are all shaped by the use of technologies. However, people often associate with the term technology' attributes, such as catastrophic and potentially dangerous, and tend to take the benefits of technological products for granted. This asymmetry in riskbenefit perception is one of the main reasons why many consumers are concerned about hidden' risks of technologies and why they demand stringent regulatory actions when they feel unduly exposed to potential emissions or waste products associated with the lifecycle of technologies. This situation is often aggravated by social amplification processes, by which even small risks receive high media attention and are blown out of proportion in the public arena. At the same time, however, one needs to acknowledge that many technologies have the potential to harm the human health and the environment. The purpose of this article is to review our knowledge about risk perception with respect to technologies, in particular emerging technologies, and to suggest possible strategies to use this knowledge for improving our risk management practice. Technological risk perception is defined in this article as the processing of physical signals and/or information about a potentially harmful impact of using technology and the formation of a judgment about seriousness, likelihood, and acceptability of the respective technology. Based on the review of psychological, social, and cultural factors that shape individual and social risk perceptions, we have attempted to develop a structured framework that provides an integrative and systematic perspective on technological risk perception and that may assist risk management and regulation in taking perceptions into account.

Renn, O., et al. (2013). "Benefit-risk trade-offs in retrospect: how major stakeholders perceive the decision-making process in the Barents Sea oil field development." Journal of Risk Research 16(9): 1163-1185.	This study provides an analysis of risk-benefit communication and participation of the siting process for the Norwegian Goliat oil field development, within the context of a revised model of the International Risk Governance Council's framework. The main objective of the study is a retrospective review of the decision-making process seen through the lenses of the major stakeholders involved in this process. The research design used qualitative methods of empirical research including stakeholder interviews during a five-day period in 2011 in Northern Norway. Results showed that the siting process of Goliat was dominated primarily by the issue of benefit sharing. In view of potential risks to such oil development, local stakeholders felt entitled to some compensation in terms of shared benefits. However, over the course of time the high hopes that these benefits would materialize and provide additional benefits to the communities which would then be fairly distributed among the beneficiaries have been disappointed. We review the reasons behind these results as well as formulate recommendations regarding potential improvements to the risk-benefit communication process in addition to future siting processes.

Rensberger, B. (2002). "Report: Image and meaning conference." Science Communication 23(3): 342-347.	Increasing use of visualization techniques in science offers good opportunities to use the images to communicate science more effectively both within the scientific world and to the public. But because there is insufficient collaboration among scientists, journalists, and imaging experts, including photographers and illustrators, the remarkable new images coming out of science are rarely used to best advantage. The Image and Meaning conference, held at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 14-16 June 2001, was organized to encourage greater collaboration among the relevant groups with the goal of encouraging better communication.

Renzi, B. G., et al. (2017). "Rebirth, Devastation and Sickness: Analyzing the Role of Metaphor in Media Discourses of Nuclear Power." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(5): 624-640.	Nuclear power plays an important but controversial role in policies to ensure domestic energy security, fuel poverty reduction and the mitigation of climate change. Our article construes the problem of nuclear power in terms of social discourse, language and public choice; specifically examining the role that metaphors play in the policy domain. We empirically analyze metaphors as framing devices in nuclear energy policy debates in the UK between April 2009 and March 2013, thereby capturing the impact of the Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011. We employ documentary analysis of major UK national broadsheet and tabloid newspapers, using electronic bibliographic tools to extract the metaphors. We then map these metaphors using a Type Hierarchy Analysis, which examines how elements of the target domain (energy technologies and policies) originate from a different source domain. Type hierarchies identify and categorize metaphors, defining the affectual and emotional responses associated with them, providing us with grounded insight into their role in shaping discourse and as a consequence influence public engagement with energy policy. Our analysis highlights three emergent domains of discourse metaphors and discusses the implications of their deployment. Metaphors were found to be classified into three different categories: Rebirth (Renaissance), Devastation (Apocalypse, Inferno, Genie and Bomb) and Sickness (Addiction and Smoking).

Representatives, C. S. U. H. (1999). "Excerpts from unlocking our future: Toward a new national science policy." Science Communication 20(3): 328-336.	September 1998, the Committee on Science of the U.S. House of Representatives released the report, Unlocking Our Future: Toward a New National Science Policy. The report is designed to map out long-range directions for science policy in the United States. The excerpts below set the context for the study, discuss the importance of science communication, and offer some of the report's recommendations for funding and future initiatives.

Resnik, D. (1996). "Data falsification in clinical trials." Science Communication 18(1): 49-58.	This article uses an infamous case of data falsification in clinical research as a starting point for a deeper analysis of some of the motivations and obligations that could encourage misconduct in a clinical setting. The article argues that the use of alternative, less rigid experimental designs and protocols could help lessen the pressures on researchers to falsify clinical data pertaining to patient records, and that it is worth considering alternative designs to benefit patients and help promote integrity in medical research.

Retzbach, J., et al. (2016). "Measuring the perceived uncertainty of scientific evidence and its relationship to engagement with science." Public Understanding of Science 25(6): 638-655.	Many scholars have argued for the need to communicate openly not only scientific successes to the public but also limitations, such as the tentativeness of research findings, in order to enhance public trust and engagement. Yet, it has not been quantitatively assessed how the perception of scientific uncertainties relates to engagement with science on an individual level. In this article, we report the development and testing of a new questionnaire in English and German measuring the perceived uncertainty of scientific evidence. Results indicate that the scale is reliable and valid in both language versions and that its two subscales are differentially related to measures of engagement: Science-friendly attitudes were positively related only to subjectively' perceived uncertainty, whereas interest in science as well as behavioural engagement actions and intentions were largely uncorrelated. We conclude that perceiving scientific knowledge to be uncertain is only weakly, but positively related to engagement with science.

Retzinger, J. (2010). "Spectacles of Labor: Viewing Food Production Through a Television Screen." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(4): 441-460.	This paper examines visual and narrative techniques used in representations of food production and processing in contemporary reality television programming. These include normalizing industrial labor, controlling who is given license to speak, the use of humor, baby talk and innuendo, celebrating artifice, presenting numbers without context, and venerating mechanical precision and scale. The paper argues that together these strategies help to convert productive (wage) labor into televisual free labor. Additionally, viewer feedback on these episodes (available through on-line discussion sites and constituting yet another form of free labor) provides some evidence of the ways in which readers interpret these texts, acknowledge the conditions of industrialized labor, and begin to reflect on their own food consumption practices.

Retzinger, J. (2011). "Eleven Miles South of Hollywood: Analyzing Narrative Strategies in The Garden." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(3): 337-343.	This essay examines the narrative strategies employed in Scott Hamilton Kennedy's documentary The Garden (2008) and their impact on making meaning and drawing lessons from the film.

Retzinger, J. P. (2008). "Pizza as Praxis: Bridging Nature and Culture." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(2): 246-255.	This essay explores food (and specifically pizza) as a means of communicating individual and cultural values, focusing in particular on the environmental impacts of our food choices. Key features of conventional or industrialized agriculture are compared with organic practices. Farmers markets are discussed as an option for reducing the environmental costs of food production and transportation.

Reyes, J. A. L. (2015). "Cross-section analyses of attitudes towards science and nature from the International Social Survey Programme 1993, 2000, and 2010 surveys." Public Understanding of Science 24(3): 338-357.	This paper explores public attitudes towards science and nature in twelve countries using data from the International Social Survey Programme environment modules of 1993, 2000, and 2010. Analysis of attitude items indicates technocentric and pessimistic dimensions broadly related to the Dominant Social Paradigm and New Environmental Paradigm. A bi-axial dimension scale is utilized to classify respondents among four environmental knowledge orientations. Discernible and significant patterns are found among countries and their populations. Relationships with other substantial variables in the surveys are discussed and findings show that the majority of industrialized countries are clustered in the rational ecologist categorization with respondents possessing stronger ecological consciousness and optimism towards the role of modern institutions, science, and technology in solving environmental problems.

Reyna, V. F. and M. B. Adam (2003). "Fuzzy-trace theory, risk communication, and product Labeling in sexually transmitted diseases." Risk Analysis 23(2): 325-342.	Health care professionals are a major source of risk communications, but their estimation of risks may be compromised by systematic biases. We examined fuzzy-trace theory's predictions of professionals' biases in risk estimation for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) linked to: knowledge deficits (producing underestimation of STI risk, re-infection, and gender differences), gist-based mental representation of risk categories (producing overestimation of condom effectiveness for psychologically atypical but prevalent infections), retrieval failure for risk knowledge (producing greater risk underestimation when STIs are not specified), and processing interference involving combining risk estimates (producing biases in post-test estimation of infection, regardless of knowledge). One-hundred-seventy-four subjects (experts attending a national workshop, physicians, other health care professionals, and students) estimated the risk of teenagers contracting STIs, re-infection rates for males and females, and condom effectiveness in reducing infection risk. Retrieval was manipulated by asking estimation questions in two formats, a specific format that "unpacked" the STI category (infection types) and a global format that did not provide specific cues. Requesting estimates of infection risk after relevant knowledge was directly provided, isolating processing effects, assessed processing biases. As predicted, all groups of professionals underestimated the risk of STI transmission, re-infection, and gender differences, and overestimated the effectiveness of condoms, relative to published estimates. However, when questions provided better retrieval supports (specified format), estimation bias decreased. All groups of professionals also suffered from predicted processing biases. Although knowledge deficits contribute to estimation biases, the research showed that biases are also linked to fuzzy representations, retrieval failures, and processing errors. Hence, interventions that are designed to improve risk perception among professionals must incorporate more than knowledge dissemination. They should also provide support for information representation, effective retrieval, and accurate processing.

Reynolds, T. W., et al. (2010). "Now What Do People Know About Global Climate Change? Survey Studies of Educated Laypeople." Risk Analysis 30(10): 1520-1538.	In 1992, a mental-models-based survey in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, revealed that educated laypeople often conflated global climate change and stratospheric ozone depletion, and appeared relatively unaware of the role of anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions in global warming. This study compares those survey results with 2009 data from a sample of similarly well-educated laypeople responding to the same survey instrument. Not surprisingly, following a decade of explosive attention to climate change in politics and in the mainstream media, survey respondents in 2009 showed higher awareness and comprehension of some climate change causes. Most notably, unlike those in 1992, 2009 respondents rarely mentioned ozone depletion as a cause of global warming. They were also far more likely to correctly volunteer energy use as a major cause of climate change; many in 2009 also cited natural processes and historical climatic cycles as key causes. When asked how to address the problem of climate change, while respondents in 1992 were unable to differentiate between general "good environmental practices" and actions specific to addressing climate change, respondents in 2009 have begun to appreciate the differences. Despite this, many individuals in 2009 still had incorrect beliefs about climate change, and still did not appear to fully appreciate key facts such as that global warming is primarily due to increased concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, and the single most important source of this carbon dioxide is the combustion of fossil fuels.

Ribas, C. and J. Caceres (1997). "Perceptions of science in Catalan society." Public Understanding of Science 6(2): 143-166.	The project 'Perception of Science by Catalan Society: Sociological study 1995' used a questionnaire to determine: the level of interest in science among Catalans; which channels the public uses to find out about scientific matters; attitudes towards science as an element of culture; the level of scientific knowledge of the Catalan population; and the sociological profile of the population according to its level of scientific culture. Compared with the results of a similar study carried out in 1989, knowledge and interest in science in the Catalan population has increased, and may be connected to the increase of the portion of the population with secondary or university education. Although interest has increased among women, those with highest levels of 'scientific culture' are well educated, socially active young men. Other socio-demographic features and patterns of media use suggest that more effective diffusion of scientific information might be achieved if particular types of information were aimed at specific groups through particular media.

Ricci, O. (2010). "Technology for everyone: representations of technology in popular Italian scientific magazines." Public Understanding of Science 19(5): 578-589.	Over the last few years, several popular techno-scientific magazines have been published which provide a number of visions with regards to technology. This paper aims to analyze the manner in which some of these popular Italian scientific magazines represent technology. The methodology utilized in this analysis is based on a frame analysis of a sampling of five Italian popular scientific magazines (Focus, Quark, T3, Jack, Explora), covering a period extending from July 2004 to January 2006. Results of this analysis show that two of the most frequent frames are the "vaporware" frame, relating to technologies not yet ready for the market, however presented as though they were, and the "relationships between technologies" frame, which emphasizes the relationship certain technologies have with other technologies. Technology is represented in negative as well as positive terms, often on the same topic and in the same magazine. This paper refers to this type of representation as "technological Orientalism," quoting Said, meaning that technology is always seen as something which can be both terrifying and dangerous as well as wondrous and fabulous.

Rice, R. E., et al. (2018). "Frequent but Accurate: A Closer Look at Uncertainty and Opinion Divergence in Climate Change Print News." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(3): 301-321.	The prevalence of uncertainty and opinion divergence frames in climate change news reporting has generated concerns about the misrepresentation of scientific consensus. We first develop reliable, valid, and more nuanced measures of often-conflated types of uncertainty and opinion divergence frames. Then we analyse the co-occurrence combinations of those distinct types of opinions, sources, and topics in mainstream climate change news stories between 2005 and 2015. Results indicate that while uncertainty and opinion divergence frames are indeed frequent, once clearly distinguished, they in general accurately reference non-scientist sources (e.g. government officials) and topics that do not have a scientific consensus (e.g. the severity of climate change effects).

Rich, J. L. (2016). "Drilling Is Just the Beginning: Romanticizing Rust Belt identities in the campaign for shale gas." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(3): 292-304.	Public apprehension over the environmental, social, and health impacts of unconventional gas drilling, or fracking, prompts various responses from oil and gas industries. Natural gas discourses operating in the Marcellus Shale Region, USA, for example, counter claims of environmental harm by emphasizing the economic growth that industry spurs. This article argues that corporate narratives operating in the Marcellus renew the jobs versus environment dichotomy by romanticizing labor identities in the region, binding Rust Belt identities to extraction in the past, present, and future of the region. The danger of this discursive move is the exclusion of alternative possibilities for working, living, and being without fossil fuel industries. I employ a critical analysis of one corporate advertising campaign, "Drilling Is Just the Beginning," produced by the natural gas drilling company Range Resources, to demonstrate how extraction discourses construct futures that depend on shale gas development, thereby marginalizing possibilities for ecologically sensible alternatives.

Rich, R. C. and W. D. Conn (1995). "Using Automated Emergency Notification Systems to Inform the Public - a Field Experiment." Risk Analysis 15(1): 23-28.	Research and experience have shown that it can be difficult to get citizens to pay attention to risk messages and preparedness information in the absence of an actual emergency. As the use of computerized systems that alert the public to hazards by automatically ringing their home phones increases, we thought it important to ask if tests of these ''call down'' systems can also be used to convey preemergency information. We worked with a local government to add instructions on how to shelter-in-place to the message on a routine test of a call down system. We then surveyed a test group and a control group before and after the test call and a second control group only after the call. The results indicate that the test call raised awareness of the emergency notification system without generating undue concern about the possibility of a chemical accident. Those who received the test call demonstrated significant improvements in their knowledge of how to shelter-in-place while no such improvement was observed in those who did not get the call. While the nature of the sample used in this study limits generalizability, we feel this outcome is positive enough to warrant further exploration of this method of disseminating risk information and preparedness instructions.

Rich, R. F. and C. H. Oh (2000). "Rationality and use of information in policy decisions - A search for alternatives." Science Communication 22(2): 173-211.	In the field of knowledge acquisition, dissemination and utilization/impact, few studies have examined the appropriateness of rational actor theories as a theoretical framework. Rather the rational actor perspective has been simply taken for granted as a relevant analytical tool for explaining the use of information in policymaking. This article singles out one major set of assumptions imbedded in rational actor theories, those dealing with information acquisition and processing in individual decisionmaking, and empirically examines to what extent the assumptions are realistic. It then puts forward an organizational interest and a communications perspective as alternative explanations for information processing in individual and organizational decisionmaking. The findings of this article show that decisionmakers' behavior does not conform to the assumptions put forward by the rational actor theorists. Instead, the organizational interest perspective is far more promising in accounting for the actual behavior of individuals in processing information in making policy decisions.

Rickard, L., et al. (2011). "Visitor Proficiency Profiling and Risk Communication at a National Park." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(1): 62-82.	While cognitive heuristics may produce successful, efficient outcomes, they can also introduce predictable biases that may be unavoidable even for seasoned experts. This study connects the concept of oprofessional intuitiono to the practice of strategic communication, suggesting that people may rely on heuristics to profile an audience. These judgments, in turn, influence crafting of communication to meet the audiences' assumed needs, the defining element of an audience-centered approach. Using interview and observational data, this study examines how national park staff use heuristic cues to evaluate visitors during face-to-face interactions. The assessments employees make, in turn, influence whether they encourage or discourage visitors from participating in inherently risky recreational activities. This visitor proficiency profiling, together with the strategic communication strategies employed, extends audience-centered communication to include both informal messages as well as individuals not necessarily trained as risk communicators. Both applied and theoretical implications of this research are considered.

Rickard, L. N. (2011). "In backyards, on front lawns: examining informal risk communication and communicators." Public Understanding of Science 20(5): 642-657.	Risk communicators are often envisioned as government officials, public relations practitioners, or health workers. Yet much of the public's risk information comes from informal messages and unofficial carriers. Referred to in this study as "informal risk communicators" (IRCs), these individuals are often service workers who relay risk information to public audiences, though often outside of their formal job descriptions. Literatures in the health communication, science and technology studies, and risk communication fields have considered ideas relevant to explaining these individuals, and the risk communication work they perform. To further explore this category of individuals, this study examines the communicative practices of commercial pesticide applicators, using both in-depth interviews and surveys. Through their interactions with clients, these individuals offer care, as well as project expertise and identity; however, the extent to which this work is recognized and validated is less clear. Both applied and theoretical implications of this research are considered.

Rickard, L. N. (2014). "Mountains and Handrails: Risk, Meaning, and Responsibility in Three National Parks." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(3): 286-304.	Where we live, the relationships we maintain, or the experiences we have can tell us about the way we perceive risk and the responsibility for its management. Perceptions of risk and responsibility are particularly relevant in US national parks, where unintentional injury is prevalent, yet support exists for allowing risk exposure. If experiencing risk may be both desirable (e. g., self-affirming) and undesirable (e. g., injury-causing), what is its role in a national park? Moreover, what are the expectations for visitors to encounter or to avoid it? In-depth interviews with National Park Service employees suggest that desired risk is contingent upon the circumstances in which it is encountered, and the values and prior experience of individuals. Employees perceive visitors as responsible for avoiding undesirable risk through information seeking and awareness, but also recognize considerable barriers to doing so. Theoretical and practical implications and avenues for future research are presented.

Rickard, L. N., et al. (2013). "Exploring risk attenuation and crisis communication after a plague death in Grand Canyon." Journal of Risk Research 16(2): 145-167.	In 2007, a US National Park Service (NPS) biologist working in Grand Canyon National Park in the state of Arizona died from pneumonic plague contracted from a mountain lion, prompting NPS, in partnership with local and federal agencies, to inform publics about plague risk within park contexts. Overall, the incident attracted limited media attention and public concern about an increased risk of plague. Drawing on the Social Amplification of Risk Framework (SARF), the Crisis and Emergency Risk Communication model (CERC) and the related literature outlining best practices' in crisis communication, we explore how characteristics of this incident may have attenuated, rather than amplified, plague risk. Results are drawn from the data collected at a workshop with NPS employees and in-depth interviews with these and other individuals. Theoretical and practical implications of this research, including future directions for pairing CERC and SARF in organizational risk and crisis communication research are discussed.

Rickard, L. N., et al. (2017). "Sizing Up a Superstorm: Exploring the Role of Recalled Experience and Attribution of Responsibility in Judgments of Future Hurricane Risk." Risk Analysis 37(12): 2334-2349.	Research suggests that hurricane-related risk perception is a critical predictor of behavioral response, such as evacuation. Less is known, however, about the precursors of these subjective risk judgments, especially when time has elapsed from a focal event. Drawing broadly from the risk communication, social psychology, and natural hazards literature, and specifically from concepts adapted from the risk information seeking and processing model and the protective action decision model, we examine how individuals' distant recollections, including attribution of responsibility for the effects of a storm, attitude toward relevant information, and past hurricane experience, relate to risk judgment for a future, similar event. The present study reports on a survey involving U.S. residents in Connecticut, New Jersey, and New York (n = 619) impacted by Hurricane Sandy. While some results confirm past findings, such as that hurricane experience increases risk judgment, others suggest additional complexity, such as how various types of experience (e.g., having evacuated vs. having experienced losses) may heighten or attenuate individual-level judgments of responsibility. We suggest avenues for future research, as well as implications for federal agencies involved in severe weather/natural hazard forecasting and communication with public audiences.

Ricroch, A. and F. Jesus (2009). "Consultations of stakeholders on the roles of research in relation to genetically modified plants in France." Public Understanding of Science 18(1): 91-102.	This article reports the first consultations on the roles of research in relation to genetically modified plants in France. We present a new attempt at facilitating discussion towards acceptable decisions and their results. This method consists of three steps: individual in-depth interviews of 77 French stakeholders, analysis of the interviews to identify elements that could help a constructive debate among participants, and two round-table discussions to present this analysis to stakeholders and foster discussions among them. The interviews exhibit a diversity of perceptions that are vaster than the pro or against points of view within the media. The problems raised during interviews deal with how discussions on genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are being done, how risks are taken into account, how the information is diffused, and how there is a minimal level of attention paid to social needs in GMOs' production. A series of problems more specific to the subject of the study discuss the weaknesses of the public research system. On the basis of these problems, 21 elements were identified that the stakeholders would like to see improved. One request seemed to be important for all types of stakeholders: "Raising the objectivity of the debate on GMOs." Our facilitation exercise led to a set of innovative concrete proposals for the design of an effective national debate.

Rier, D. A. (1999). "The versatile "caveat" section of an epidemiology paper - Managing public and private risk." Science Communication 21(1): 3-37.	Are toxic-exposure epidemiologists influenced when writing the "caveat" portion of their articles, by how the media, public, and courts might use their work? Qualitative interviews with 61 epidemiologists revealed that they relied on caveats to manage "public risk"-inappropriate use of their work by nonscientists. However,few considered caveats effective for this task. Caveats may be more important for managing professional risk, as subjects used caveats to preempt criticism, to advertise their credibility, to adhere to conventions, to hedge, and to deflect attention from flaws in their articles. The data bear implications for the definition of science, the demarcation of scientists from nonscientists, and the issue of scientists' responsibility.

Rier, D. A. (2003). "Work setting, publication, and scientific responsibility." Science Communication 24(4): 420-457.	Semistructured interviews (N = 61) with toxic exposure epidemiologists indicate that those in government settings (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC], state health departments, and National Institutes of Health [NIH]) were more aware of and responsive to societal consequences of their publications than were those in universities. The NIH data were surprising, given NIH's ivory tower image, but in part appear to stem from a broad trend toward greater accountability in science. Other worksite influences included "institutional voice": epidemiologists from NIH or CDC were aware of speaking in the "voice of the government." There was also limited evidence suggesting the importance of the local unit environment: investigators in the same research unit often reported being influenced by the tone set by the unit chief and colleagues. This preliminary study suggests that work setting influences how epidemiologists define and execute their ethical responsibilities toward social consequences of their work, and it generates questions and five hypotheses for future research.

Riesch, H. (2008). "The Scientific Literature: A Guided Tour." Public Understanding of Science 17(4): 509-510.
	
Riesch, H. (2011). "Changing news: re-adjusting science studies to online newspapers." Public Understanding of Science 20(6): 771-777.	With the newspapers' recent move to online reporting, traditional norms and practices of news reporting have changed to accommodate the new realities of online news writing. In particular, online news is much more fluid and prone to change in content than the traditional hard-copy newspapers - online newspaper articles often change over the course of the following days or even weeks as they respond to criticisms and new information becoming available. This poses a problem for social scientists who analyse newspaper coverage of science, health and risk topics, because it is no longer clear who has read and written what version, and what impact they potentially had on the national debates on these topics. In this note I want to briefly flag up this problem through two recent examples of UK national science stories and discuss the potential implications for PUS media research.

Riesch, H. (2011). "Why We Disagree About Climate Change: Understanding Controversy, Inaction and Opportunity." Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 439-440.
	
Riesch, H. (2011). "Climate Change and the Media." Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 439-440.
	
Riesch, H. (2015). "Why did the proton cross the road? Humour and science communication." Public Understanding of Science 24(7): 768-775.	The use of humour in public discourse about science has grown remarkably over the past few years, and when used in science communication activities is being seen as a great way to bring science to the public through laughter. However, barely any research has been published either on the often-assumed beneficial learning effects of humour in informal science education, or on the wider social functions and effects of humour about science and how humorous public discourse about science can influence the public understanding of science and the science-society relationship. This research note reviews some of the literature on the psychology and sociology of humour and comedy and tries to apply some of its insights to the effects humour might have when used in science communication. Although not intended to be anti-humour, this note attempts at least to start a more critical conversation on the value of humour in the communication of science.

Riesch, H. and C. Potter (2014). "Citizen science as seen by scientists: Methodological, epistemological and ethical dimensions." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 107-120.	Citizen science as a way of communicating science and doing public engagement has over the past decade become the focus of considerable hopes and expectations. It can be seen as a win-win situation, where scientists get help from the public and the participants get a public engagement experience that involves them in real and meaningful scientific research. In this paper we present the results of a series of qualitative interviews with scientists who participated in the OPAL' portfolio of citizen science projects that has been running in England since 2007: What were their experiences of participating in citizen science? We highlight two particular sets of issues that our participants have voiced, methodological/epistemological and ethical issues. While we share the general enthusiasm over citizen science, we hope that the research in this paper opens up more debate over the potential pitfalls of citizen science as seen by the scientists themselves.

Riley, D. M., et al. (2001). "Evaluating the effectiveness of risk-reduction strategies for consumer chemical products." Risk Analysis 21(2): 357-369.	Communication about risks offers a voluntary approach to reducing exposure to pollutants. Its adequacy depends on its impact on behavior. Estimating those impacts first requires characterizing current activities and their associated risk levels, and then predicting the effectiveness of risk-reduction strategies. Characterizing the risks from chemical consumer products requires knowledge of both the physical and the behavioral processes that influence exposures. This article presents an integrated approach that combines consumer interviews, users' beliefs and behaviors, and quantitative exposure modeling. This model was demonstrated in the context of consumer exposure to a methylene chloride-based paint stripper, showing how it could be used to evaluate current levels of risk and predict the effectiveness of proposed voluntary risk-reduction strategies.

Riley, D. M., et al. (2006). "Incorporating ethnographic methods in multidisciplinary approaches to risk assessment and communication: Cultural and religious uses of mercury in Latino and Caribbean communities." Risk Analysis 26(5): 1205-1221.	The potential risk from cultural and religious practices involving mercury in Latino and Caribbean communities raises central methodological and ethical questions for risk assessment and risk communication. Here, specific cultural practices unfamiliar to most risk professionals carry significant inherent risks in the eyes of those professionals but not necessarily in the eyes of practitioners. Practitioners' past experience and history as targets of religious suppression and anti-immigrant sentiment create a reluctance to engage with researchers or public health officials in risk assessment or preventive risk communication efforts. The potential for the risk-in this case mercury contamination in dwellings-to extend beyond the practicing community to future occupants adds to public health concern. Understanding the risks of these practices requires both an understanding of the cultural and political context, beliefs, and behaviors of mercury users and an understanding of the fate and transport of mercury in typical use scenarios. In this study, we employed ethnographic methods (interviews and participant observation) to understand beliefs and behavior about mercury use as well as quantitative modeling and measurement to estimate and assess potential exposures. This represents a new methodology tailored to situations in which traditional activities or observances that are integral components of cultural identity pose risks in and of themselves. Our findings indicate that there are different types of mercury use stemming from different cultural and religious traditions that result in different levels of exposure. Many of the mercury uses that can result in the highest exposures to mercury vapors have previously been attributed to the religious tradition of Santeria, but appear instead to have their roots outside of the religion.

Rivenburgh, N. K. (2013). "Media framing of complex issues: The case of endangered languages." Public Understanding of Science 22(6): 704-717.	This study investigates how media frame a global trend that is complex in nature, emergent in terms of scientific understanding, and has public policy implications: the rapid disappearance of languages. It analyzes how English-language media from 15 western, industrialized countries frame the causes and implications of endangered languages over 35 years (1971-2006) - a time period notable for growing, interdisciplinary concerns over the potential negative impacts of losing the world's linguistic diversity. The results reveal a media discourse characterized by three complementary frames that are sympathetic to the plight of endangered languages, but that present the problem, its cause, and societal implications in a logical structure that would promote public complacency.

Rivers, L. and J. Arvai (2007). "Win some, lose some: The effect of chronic losses on decision making under risk." Journal of Risk Research 10(8): 1085-1099.	Losses, including those that are chronic in nature, are a fact of life. The research reported here was designed to examine, using a controlled experiment, the effect of chronic losses in a given contextual domain on subsequent decisions with uncertain outcomes that take place in the same and in unrelated domains. Randomly selected adult subjects who took part in the experiment were randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups: One group, chronic losers, was exposed to chronic financial losses as part of a controlled, multi-round gambling simulation. Groups two and three were exposed to chronic wins and random outcomes, respectively, as part of the same gambling simulation. Results from the experiment revealed that chronic losses, in contrast to random outcomes and chronic wins, had clear effects on decision making in the domain where the initial losses were incurred. Subjects who were exposed to the chronic loss induction demonstrated a significantly higher level of risk aversion when compared with subjects who were exposed to either random outcomes or chronic wins. Subjects exposed to chronic losses also displayed a depressed affective state and a tendency to accept less as an outcome of future decisions, and still consider it to be a satisfactory result, when compared to subjects in the two control conditions. There appears to be no spillover, however, of a similar degree of risk aversion when considering similar kinds of decisions in unrelated contextual domains. These results seem consistent with prospect theory and the theory of learned helplessness, and have implications for risk communication and management in a variety of contexts.

Roberts, J. (2016). "New texts in science communication." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 1014-1016.
	
Roberts, M. R., et al. (2013). "Causal or spurious? The relationship of knowledge and attitudes to trust in science and technology." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 624-641.	Survey data on 1217 adults living in Alberta, Canada were collected by Ipsos Reid Public Affairs and made available to us for analysis. The survey questioned participants on issues related to science including their perceived knowledge of science, attitudes toward science, and trust in science and technology. We developed a structural equation model to account for the causal relations implied by the correlations among the variables in the data set. Results show that trust in generalized science and technology is a large determiner of trust in specific technologies, but that trust in specific technologies is not a determinant of overall trust in science and technology. We also found that attitudes towards science have an effect on trust in generalized science and technology whereas perceived knowledge does not. Education and gender contribute to attitudes supporting an increased personal attachment to science, which was the strongest predictor of trust in our model.

Robins, R. (2001). "Overburdening risk: policy frameworks and the public uptake of gene technology." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 19-36.	This paper examines the controversy that surrounded plans by Hoechst to build a facility in Germany to manufacture human insulin using gene technology. Social and political factors that framed lay and expert understandings of gene technology and attitudes to risk in the dispute will be examined. It is argued that the formal regulatory and dispute resolution arenas privileged a technical-risk-as-rational-choice model of decision making as the "natural'' ordering of risk and the understanding of gene technology in the dispute. This had the effect of overburdening technical risk as the cause of the controversy, leading to an asymmetrical treatment of scientific and non-scientific knowledge and drawing the facility's opponents into the very discourse on gene technology they wanted to challenge. In the end, the policy procedures were unsuccessful in resolving the controversy because they failed to address many of the issues that the public and the opponents regarded as important.

Robinson, L. A. and J. K. Hammitt (2015). "Introduction to the Special Series on Risk, Perception, and Response." Risk Analysis 35(10): 1766-1769.
	
Robinson, L. A. and J. K. Hammitt (2015). "Introduction to the Special Series on Research Synthesis: A Cross-Disciplinary Approach." Risk Analysis 35(6): 963-970.	To estimate the effects of a policy change, analysts must often rely on available data as time and resource constraints limit their ability to commission new primary research. Research synthesis methods-including systematic review, meta-analysis, and expert elicitationplay an important role in ensuring that this evidence is appropriately weighed and considered. We present the conclusions of a multidisciplinary Harvard Center for Risk Analysis project that evaluated and applied these methods, and introduce the resulting series of articles. The first step in any analysis is to clearly define the problem to be addressed; the second is a systematic review of the literature. Whether additional analysis is needed depends on the quality and relevance of the available data to the policy question, and the likely effect of uncertainty on the policy decision. Meta-analysis promotes understanding the variation between studies and may be used to combine the estimates to develop values for application in policy analysis. Formal, structured expert elicitation promotes careful consideration of the evidence when data are limited or inconsistent, and aids in extrapolating to the policy context. Regardless of the methods used, clear communication of the approach, assumptions, and uncertainty is essential.

Robinson, M. T., et al. (2017). "The First Pint of Science Festival in Asia." Science Communication 39(6): 810-820.	The Pint of Science Festival is the largest annual international science festival. So far the event has been held simultaneously in Europe, North America, South America, Africa, and Australia but not in Asia. Pint of Science Thailand was held for the first time this year, in Thailand's capital, Bangkok. This article briefly discusses some of the successes, challenges, and lessons learnt associated with running the first Pint of Science event in Asia, a culture very different to the Western Hemisphere cities that have currently hosted Pint of Science events.

Roche, J. P. and M. A. T. Muskavitch (2003). "Limited precision in print media communication of West Nile virus risks." Science Communication 24(3): 353-365.	The emergence of West Nile virus in the United States provides an opportunity to examine the effectiveness with which the print media communicate risks associated with a specific health threat. The authors surveyed articles on West Nile virus published in Major North American newspapers in the year 2000 to assess the efficacy of risk communication related to this disease. They found that articles generally presented risk information with a low degree of contextual precision; that is, information was generally more qualitative than quantitative, and quantitative information that was present generally did not provide the relative context of a denominator Therefore, the information provided was of limited usefulness to readers, in that it was insufficient to help readers make personal decisions required to reduce overall personal risk while minimizing personal cost. Their findings suggest that there is a distinct need for the media to provide more precise information about health risks.

Rock, J., et al. (2018). "Multidisciplinary Perspectives on Co-creation." Science Communication 40(4): 541-552.	With its conceptual origins in marketing, design, and education, co-creation also has analogues in the fields of science and museology. Reviewing its development in these different disciplines highlights some common challenges (e.g., power relations) and benefits (e.g., joint knowledge production, critical thinking, and shared investment). Aligning this overview with conceptual models such as Arnstein's ladder of citizen participation and Bakhtin's carnival theory we aim to further inform the development of co-creation broadly within science communication.

Rod, S. K., et al. (2012). "Risk communication and worried publics in an imminent rockslide and tsunami situation." Journal of Risk Research 15(6): 645-654.	In this paper determinants of adequate worry were studied in the case of an impending rockslide and tsunami in the fjords around Aknes on the west coast of Norway. Approximately 3000 people live in this danger zone. A rockslide may cause up to 54 million cubic metres (1.9 billion cubic feet) of rock to slide into the fjord below, causing a major tsunami. In relation to risk communication, the study sought insights into the determinants of adequate worry in this certain, but time-indeterminate, natural disaster. A questionnaire designed to measure the public's 'otte', a parochial Norwegian expression translated as a nagging worry about the rockslide, was mailed to all 875 inhabitants aged 18 years and older in the four small communities along the fjord; 382 responded (43.6%). The results indicated that members of the public who had trust in the experts and engaged in dialogue with them tended to worry more than others. Those who reported concerns about issues unrelated to the disaster tended to worry less about a possible rockslide. Analyses also revealed that those who lived in a community with extraordinary assets worried the most. Compliance with the evacuation procedures and trust in the experts were positively correlated with the level of worry. In order to address the needs of the public, this study suggests that not only are facts and figures about risk important but also issues that address the worries of the public. Implications for risk communication are discussed.

Rodder, S. (2009). "Reassessing the concept of a medialization of science: a story from the "book of life"." Public Understanding of Science 18(4): 452-463.	The changing relationship between science and the mass media has been characterized in theory as a medialization of science. his paper argues that the concept of medialization should be further focused by differentiating two dimensions, an increasing media attention for scientific issues on the one hand and an increasing orientation of science towards the media on the other hand. his allows for observing changes with regard to science and the media separately. he concept is then supported empirically for the field of human genome research. British and German print media coverage of the final phase of the human genome sequencing has been studied using a quantitative content analysis. Triggered by its far-reaching implications, its "Big Science" nature and the competition of publicly and privately funded scientists to finish the first drafts of the human genome, human genome research is indicative of the medialization of science. It is therefore likely that the rationalities of the media system gain an influence on the research field or even beyond it.

Rodder, S. (2010). "Communicating Biological Sciences: Ethical and Metaphorical Dimensions." Public Understanding of Science 19(6): 763-764.
	
Rodgers, S., et al. (2018). "Decoding Science: Development and Evaluation of a Science Communication Training Program Using a Triangulated Framework." Science Communication 40(1): 3-32.	The authors describe a science communication training called Decoding Science and the steps taken to develop and assess program effectiveness. Evaluation is based on a triangulated framework involving feedback from graduate student trainees, faculty trainers, and ordinary citizens who are not specialists in the field. Three cohorts of graduate STEM (science, technology, engineering, math) students participated in the training in Spring 2016 (N = 18), Fall 2016 (N = 11), and Spring 2017 (N = 14). Analysis of these evaluations indicates significant improvements in trainees' communication of science. We conclude that our triangulated approach can be useful in science communication training.

Rodriguez, L. (2007). "The impact of risk communication on the acceptance of irradiated food." Science Communication 28(4): 476-500.	This study uses a quasi-experimental design to assess the impact of pro- and anti-food irradiation messages on consumer opinions. The data came from a panel study of 223 adults in Minneapolis, Minnesota, who completed three successive questionnaires. One group received a packet of information materials; another did not. Packet recipients perceived irradiation to be less safe and held less favorable opinions about the protagonists in the irradiation debate. Opinions changed over three months, although the changes were not statistically significant. Those who did not receive the packet showed significantly more favorable opinions of food irradiation opponents.

Rodriguez, P. (2006). "Talking brains: a cognitive semantic analysis of an emerging folk neuropsychology." Public Understanding of Science 15(3): 301-330.	What is the influence of neuroscience on the common sense way we talk about behavior and mental experience? This article examines this influence and the diffusion of neuroscience terms as it appears in everyday language that reflects shared cultural knowledge. In an unsolicited collection of speech acts and metaphors I show that the word "brain" often substitutes for "mind" and brain states are often asserted as the cause of mental states. I also present several examples of visual depictions of the brain, including modem brain scans, which have become the basis for new cultural symbols that are identified with mental experience. Taken together, the linguistic and visual brain metaphors highlight the concrete nature of the brain in contrast to the abstract nature of the mind. This, in turn, provides a physical dimension to the way we conceptualize mental phenomena in ordinary language. Thus, a modem folk neuropsychology is emerging which provides an alternative, reductionist, and sometimes competing network of concepts for explaining the mind in comparison to conventional folk psychology.

Roeser, S. (2012). "Risk Communication, Public Engagement, and Climate Change: A Role for Emotions." Risk Analysis 32(6): 1033-1040.	This article discusses the potential role that emotions might play in enticing a lifestyle that diminishes climate change. Climate change is an important challenge for society. There is a growing consensus that climate change is due to our behavior, but few people are willing to significantly adapt their lifestyle. Empirical studies show that people lack a sense of urgency: they experience climate change as a problem that affects people in distant places and in a far future. Several scholars have claimed that emotions might be a necessary tool in communication about climate change. This article sketches a theoretical framework that supports this hypothesis, drawing on insights from the ethics of risk and the philosophy of emotions. It has been shown by various scholars that emotions are important determinants in risk perception. However, emotions are generally considered to be irrational states and are hence excluded from communication and political decision making about risky technologies and climate change, or they are used instrumentally to create support for a position. However, the literature on the ethics of risk shows that the dominant, technocratic approach to risk misses the normative-ethical dimension that is inherent to decisions about acceptable risk. Emotion research shows that emotions are necessary for practical and moral decision making. These insights can be applied to communication about climate change. Emotions are necessary for understanding the moral impact of the risks of climate change, and they also paradigmatically provide for motivation. Emotions might be the missing link in effective communication about climate change.

Rogener, W. and H. Wormer (2017). "Defining criteria for good environmental journalism and testing their applicability: An environmental news review as a first step to more evidence based environmental science reporting." Public Understanding of Science 26(4): 418-433.	While the quality of environmental science journalism has been the subject of much debate, a widely accepted benchmark to assess the quality of coverage of environmental topics is missing so far. Therefore, we have developed a set of defined criteria of environmental reporting. This instrument and its applicability are tested in a newly established monitoring project for the assessment of pieces on environmental issues, which refer to scientific sources and therefore can be regarded as a special field of science journalism. The quality is assessed in a kind of journalistic peer review. We describe the systematic development of criteria, which might also be a model procedure for other fields of science reporting. Furthermore, we present results from the monitoring of 50 environmental reports in German media. According to these preliminary data, the lack of context and the deficient elucidation of the evidence pose major problems in environmental reporting.

Rogers, C. L. (1998). "Science communication in context." Science Communication 20(2): 187-189.
	
Rogers, C. L. (1999). "Looking ahead to the twenty-first century." Science Communication 21(2): 109-110.
	
Rogers, C. L. (1999). "Report: World Conference on Science for the twenty-first century - A new commitment." Science Communication 21(2): 179-182.
	
Rogers, C. L. (1999). "Editorial: More than a meeting." Science Communication 20(4): 371-372.
	
Rogers, C. L. (2000). "Untitled." Science Communication 22(1): 3-4.
	
Rogers, C. L. (2001). "Editorial: Understanding public communication of science and technology." Science Communication 23(2): 95-96.
	
Rogers, C. L. (2001). "The civic scientist." Science Communication 23(1): 3-4.
	
Rogers, C. L. (2002). "Anthrax: More questions than answers." Science Communication 23(3): 223-224.
	
Rogers, C. L. (2004). "Untitled." Science Communication 26(1): 3-4.
	
Rogers, C. L. (2007). "A personal note." Science Communication 29(1): 5-6.
	
Rogers, E. M. (2002). "The nature of technology transfer." Science Communication 23(3): 323-341.	Technology transfer, defined as the application of information into use, is often a difficult and frustrating process. Participants in the technology transfer process are usually heterophilous, so that technology receptors speak a different language than technology sources. This essay explores the concept of technology transfer and suggests strategies for its facilitation,

Rogers, G. O. (1997). "The dynamics of risk perception: How does perceived risk respond to risk events?" Risk Analysis 17(6): 745-757.	This paper examines the relationship between perceived risk and experience. This research addresses the processes by which people learn about risk and choose among real life prospects with associated uncertainties, risks and benefits. By comparing the impact of acute risk events with that of chronic risk events on public perception of risk during and after the events, this research focuses on the learning processes that characterize what kinds of risk events alter the perception of risk. Comparing materialized hazards at existing facilities with the risks associated with potential facilities, this research addresses risk choices among real life prospects. This study uses a classic pre-post quasi-experimental design. Surveys conducted in the Spring of 1992 on perceived and acceptable risk in Odessa and La Forte, Texas were conducted prior to risk events. Respondents from that survey were re-interviewed in the Spring of 1993 after the risk events to form a panel design. This paper analyzes the affect of risk events on perceived risk and the implications of these experiences for public policy concerning: technological risk. The empirical results suggest that the social processes that construct and maintain risk in the public eye are at least as important as, if not more important than, the physical and psychological dimensions of risk.

Rogers, M. D. (2011). "Risk management and the record of the precautionary principle in EU case law." Journal of Risk Research 14(4): 467-484.	The 'modern' approach to risk management fails with increasing scientific uncertainty. Risk regulators have responded to this difficulty by invoking the precautionary principle (PP). Under the PP, the bridge from risk assessment to risk management involves scenarios which use retrospective analyses to decide on future actions in order to avoid prospective harm. This new approach is termed 'post-modern' by some observers. In response to such 'post-modern' risks, the EU incorporated the PP into its primary law in 1992 and issued an explanatory Communication on the PP in 2000. The Communication presented five criteria that should govern precautionary actions and these criteria are now reflected in secondary laws in a number of sectors. Critically, the practical application of this body of law is being clarified through the case law of the EU courts. PP case law up to the end of 2008 is critically analysed in the light of the five criteria set out in the Commission's Communication. It is found that the first criterion (proportionality) is used effectively by the courts but that the fifth criterion (responding to the dynamics of scientific progress) is not. The paper concludes with a discussion regarding the future management of uncertain risks and the PP in the light of this case law.

Rogers, R. and N. Marres (2000). "Landscaping climate change: a mapping technique for understanding science and technology debates on the World Wide Web." Public Understanding of Science 9(2): 141-163.	New World Wide Web (web) mapping techniques may inform and ultimately facilitate meaningful participation in current science and technology debates. The technique described here "landscapes" a debate by displaying key "webby" relationships between organizations. "Debate-scaping" plots two organizational positionings-the organizations' inter-hyperlinking as well as their discursive affinities. The underlying claim is that hyperlinking and discursive maps provide a semblance of given socio-epistemic networks on the web. The climate change debate on the web in November 1998 serves as a test case. Three findings are reported. First, distinctive .com, .gov and .org Linking styles were found. Second, organizations take care in making hyperlinks, leading to the premise that the hyperlinks (and the "missing links") reveal which issue and debate framings organizations acknowledge, and find acceptable and unacceptable. Finally, it was learned that organizations take substantive positions and address other organizations' positions. Thus, we found the makings of a "debate" that may be mapped. Scenarios of use to support new public participation techniques and experiments are discussed by way of conclusion.

Rogers, R. A. (2008). "Beasts, Burgers, and Hummers: Meat and the Crisis of Masculinity in Contemporary Television Advertisements." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(3): 281-301.	This paper examines three recent television advertisements that symbolically link meat not only with masculinity, but specifically with the "crisis in masculinity.'' Using an ecofeminist lens, I engage in an intersectional analysis of these advertisements to demonstrate how they articulate the eating of meat with primitive masculinities as a response to perceived threats to hegemonic masculinity. These advertisements demonstrate that scholars interested in the status of masculinity must pay attention to the "threats'' to masculinity posed by environmental and animal rights movements, and that scholars interested in environmental movements must pay attention to the role of masculinity in resisting moves toward sustainability. This analysis demonstrates the utility of ecofeminism in understanding the relationship between hegemonic masculinity and environmentalism while also pointing to the need for ecofeminism to continue to explore the implications of intersectionality for ecofeminist theory and criticism.

Rogers-Hayden, T. and N. Pidgeon (2007). "Moving engagement "upstream"? Nanotechnologies and the Royal Society and Royal Academy of Engineering's inquiry." Public Understanding of Science 16(3): 345-364.	In response to the impetus that is gathering in the UK for upstream public engagement, we analyze the impacts of the Royal Society and Royal Academy of Engineering report of 2004 on Nanoscience and Nanotechnologies: Opportunities and Uncertainties. The paper presents an analysis of 24 interviews with stakeholders to the nanotechnology debate. It uses these to discuss the inquiry process and the recommendations contained within the report, as well as to explore and critique the notion of "upstream." We find broad support for the inquiry, which was positioned by many stakeholders itself as upstream, primarily because of its broad framing and wide stakeholder involvement. A number of both explicit and implicit upstream elements are also contained within its recommendations. However, the interviews also suggest that the notion of upstream engagement is a contested concept with a range of associated dilemmas and tensions. In drawing out some of the promise and perils of moving public debate upstream, the paper concludes that there is a risk of merely replacing the perceived deficit in public understanding of science with a perceived deficit in public engagement with science.

Roh, S., et al. (2015). "How Motivated Reasoning and Temporal Frames May Polarize Opinions About Wildlife Disease Risk." Science Communication 37(3): 340-370.	We draw from theories of motivated reasoning, dual-processing models, and attribution of responsibility to examine how scientific messages may increase public polarization with respect to emerging risk issues such as Lyme disease. A nationally representative sample of Americans (N = 460) read messages about Lyme disease that varied the framing of responsibility for the prevalence of the disease (human/wildlife vs. wildlife only) and when its effects will occur (today vs. in the next 10 years). The influence of framing was contingent on participants' partisanship, which resulted in a boomerang effect among Republicans and increased the degree of political polarization regarding support for proenvironmental behaviors.

Roh, S., et al. (2018). "Public understanding of One Health messages: The role of temporal framing." Public Understanding of Science 27(2): 185-196.	Building on research in motivated reasoning and framing in science communication, we examine how messages that vary attribution of responsibility (human vs animal) and temporal orientation (now vs in the next 10years) for wildlife disease risk influence individuals' conservation intentions. We conducted a randomized experiment with a nationally representative sample of US adults (N=355), which revealed that for people low in biospheric concern, messages that highlighted both human responsibility for and the imminent nature of the risk failed to enhance conservation intentions compared with messages highlighting animal responsibility. However, when messages highlighting human responsibility placed the risk in a temporally distal frame, conservation intentions increased among people low in biospheric concern. We assess the underlying mechanism of this effect and discuss the value of temporal framing in overcoming motivated skepticism to improve science communication.

Rojo, A. and R. G. Ragsdale (1997). "A process perspective on participation in scholarly electronic forums." Science Communication 18(4): 320-341.	This article describes participation in scholarly mailing lists and discusses the implications of such participation for scholars' social networks. The mixed-methods design included a qualitative study and a survey administered by e-mail (187 subjects in eleven electronic forums). Data were also retrieved from LISTSERV archives to determine each forum's profile in terms of contribution rate, adoption rate, and numb of active contributors. The authors found that there was transient membership in the forums, a pattern of ''few-to-many'' exchange, and weak engagement with other forum members. However, the interaction generated by a small group of contributors seems to present scholars with a new social arena that may fulfill their affiliation and information needs.

Rommetveit, K. and B. Wynne (2017). "Technoscience, imagined publics and public imaginations." Public Understanding of Science 26(2): 133-147.	This essay begins from the intensified entanglements of technoscientific innovation with miscellaneous societal and public fields of interest and action over recent years. This has been accompanied by an apparent decline in the work of purification of discourses of natural and human agency, which Latour observed in 1993. Replacing such previous discursive purifications, we increasingly find technoscientific visions of the imagined-possible as key providers of public meanings and policies. This poses the question of what forms of legitimation are constituted by these sciences, including the ways in which they enter into articulations of public matters. Revisiting historical and contemporary theories of imagination and science, this essay proposes a joint focus on imagination, publics and technoscience and their mutual co-production over time. This focus is then directed towards recent reconfigurations of technosciences with their imagined publics and towards how public issues may become constituted by social actors as active imaginations-exercising agents.

Rommetveit, K. and B. Wynne (2017). "Special Issue: Imagining public issues in the technosciences?" Public Understanding of Science 26(2): 128-132.
	
Romsdahl, R. J., et al. (2017). "Assessing National Discourse and Local Governance Framing of Climate Change for Adaptation in the United Kingdom." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(4): 515-536.	While many national governments struggle to maintain global climate change as a high priority issue, many local governments are taking action to fill the policy gaps. This study examines how local governments across the United Kingdom of Great Britain are reframing climate change. We compiled a dataset of newspaper publications covering climate change over a 10-year timeframe, plus survey and interview responses from local governance practitioners, to identify a shift in national discourse that has changed the priority level of climate change in UK local governance. This paper argues that many local governments are strategically reframing climate change as alternative issues in order to make progress in climate adaptation planning.

Roos, J. M. (2014). "Measuring science or religion? A measurement analysis of the National Science Foundation sponsored science literacy scale 2006-2010." Public Understanding of Science 23(7): 797-813.	High scientific literacy is widely considered a public good. Methods of assessing public scientific knowledge or literacy are equally important. In an effort to measure lay scientific literacy in the United States, the National Science Foundation (NSF) science literacy scale has been a part of the last three waves of the General Social Survey. However, there has been debate over the validity of some survey items as indicators of science knowledge. While many researchers treat the NSF science scale as measuring a single dimension, previous work (Bann and Schwerin, 2004; Miller, 1998, 2004) suggests a bidimensional structure. This paper hypothesizes and tests a new measurement model for the NSF science knowledge scale and finds that two items about evolution and the big bang are more measures of a religious belief dimension termed "Young Earth Worldview" than they are measures of scientific knowledge. Results are replicated in seven samples.

Roper, J., et al. (2016). "Doubt, Delay, and Discourse: Skeptics' Strategies to Politicize Climate Change." Science Communication 38(6): 776-799.	This article proposes a theoretical framework to explain climate skeptics' persuasive discursive strategies against anthropogenic global warming. By combining Bourdieu's notions of political and social fields with discursive articulation the framework explains skeptics' strategies to politicise climate change, generate debate, and delay political action. To illustrate the framework, we analyze publications of the New Zealand Climate Science Coalition, an internationally influential organization with strong links to U.S. conservative think tanks. Findings demonstrate strategies for polarization along lines of Left versus Right ideologies by linking climate change issues to prominent social discourses, thus garnering public support and delaying policy action.

Rose, C. (2003). "How to teach biology using the movie science of cloning people, resurrecting the dead, and combining flies and humans." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 289-296.	While popular culture is generally acknowledged to have some impact on public opinion of science, attempts to evaluate this relationship have focused largely on how the public perceives science, rather than how well they understand it. Movies, television, and literature are usually argued to foster a negative perception of science and scientists among the viewing and reading public. What has been left out of this analysis, however, is the degree to which popular culture informs or misinforms the public about how science is done. Does the scientific accuracy and plausibility of a movie's story line really affect the public's understanding of the related science? As a science researcher, I am biased in my belief that realistic movies provide more engaging and thought-provoking entertainment than ones that violate obvious and well-understood scientific principles. However, whether realistic movies actually stimulate public inquiry into real science remains to be demonstrated. As a science teacher, I am also challenged to find ways to engage non-science students in learning about how and why science is done. To this end, I have developed a general science course called "Biology in the Movies," which uses biology-based movies as a starting point for discussing the fundamental ideas, techniques, and societal implications of such topics as human cloning, genetic screening, human origins and evolution, artificial intelligence, and recombining animals. Teaching this course has thus prompted me to consider the qualities of movies that make them useful for furthering public understanding of science. In this essay, I attempt to explain those qualities and explore how movies that treat similar scientific ideas with differing degrees of realism can be used to teach science. I close with comments on how movies can be usefully critiqued for their scientific plausibility.

Rose, K. M., et al. (2017). "Engaging the Public at a Science Festival: Findings From a Panel on Human Gene Editing." Science Communication 39(2): 250-277.	Theoretically and methodologically sound research on the reach and impact of public engagement practices continues to lag behind. Using the 2015 Wisconsin Science Festival as context, we empirically investigate the impacts of a public engagement activity about a nascent and controversial scientific issue, human gene editing. Overall, we find the panel increased participants' understanding of the complexities of human gene editing, as demonstrated by increases in knowledge and the moral acceptability of the technology among respondents, as well as the associated risk and benefit perceptions. Practical and theoretical implications for science festivals and public engagement with science activities are discussed.

Rosen, C., et al. (2016). "The Question of Newsworthiness: A Cross-Comparison Among Science Journalists' Selection Criteria in Argentina, France, and Germany." Science Communication 38(3): 328-355.	Although science journalists' selection criteria have been investigated, there have not been systematic attempts yet to study how this varies across countries. Using gatekeeping theory, we analyzed and compared how three groups of journalists in Argentina, France, and Germany selected their news, and explored some motivations behind their decisions. Personal interests as well as a set of common news factors and sources are important for all journalists, while the journalists differ regarding professional role conceptions, the influence of their organizations, and perceived importance of audience perceptions. More research is needed to unravel science news selection criteria across different journalistic cultures.

Rosenstone, R. A. (2003). "Comments on science in the visual media." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 335-339.	Though history and science may seem to be substantially different topics, some of the lessons learned from my studies of the historical film can be suggestive for studies of the way science is treated in the visual media. For one thing, both history and science are referential, pointing to empirical realms outside the discourse. Both also come to us through the established conventions of film (and literature). This means we must be prepared to deal with, even accept, certain kinds of stereotyping and fictionalizing in the depiction of science and scientists. Part of our task is to learn to read the language of the visual media, which tends towards symbolic and metaphoric rather than literal truths.

Ross, A. D., et al. (2018). "Science as a Public Good: Findings From a Survey of March for Science Participants." Science Communication 40(2): 228-245.	On April 22, 2017, millions of people marched for science in response to a growing sense of urgency for preserving scientific funding and knowledge, both perceived as threatened by the Trump administration. This research note highlights data collected at three marches: Washington, D.C.; Los Angeles, California; and Austin, Texas. We examine marcher motivations for participation, finding the environment, current administration, and science funding were most prevalent. Furthermore, we find the majority of marchers support stances that position science as public good, including the belief that science informs responsible government policies and the support of government investments in science.

Ross, S. S. (2011). "Open Science: Sharing Knowledge in the Global Century." Science Communication 33(2): 264-266.
	
Ross-Bryant, L. (2010). "Ken Burns and American Mythology in The National Parks: America's Best Idea." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(4): 475-483.	Ken Burns' series on the national parks reveals the evolving values of the American nation, particularly in relation to nature. Through both the beauty and the history of these set apart spaces, Burns presents and to some extent critiques America's mythic dreams of nature. Nature as new world garden and as frontier shapes the story that is told. This essay focuses on two themes, science and pluralism, and argues the presentation of each (the former with less depth, the latter with more) is constrained by the mythic narrative of pristine America that seems unable to evolve, either in the face of ecological values of interrelationships or pluralistic values that re-shape understandings of democracy. More attention to the problematic of the notion of preservation of pristine America would have enabled the film to speak more powerfully not only of the history of the parks, but also of their future.

Rossmann, C., et al. (2018). "The Mediated Amplification of a Crisis: Communicating the A/H1N1 Pandemic in Press Releases and Press Coverage in Europe." Risk Analysis 38(2): 357-375.	In the aftermath of the A/H1N1 pandemic, health authorities were criticized for failures in crisis communication efforts, and the media were accused of amplifying the pandemic. Considering these criticisms, A/H1N1 provides a suitable case for examining risk amplification processes that may occur in the transfer of information from press releases to print news media during a health crisis. We integrated the social amplification of risk framework with theories of news decisions (news values, framing) in an attempt to contribute to existing research both theoretically and empirically. We conducted a quantitative content analysis of press releases disseminated by health and governmental authorities, as well as the quality and tabloid press in 10 European countries between March 2009 and March 2011. Altogether 243 press releases, 1,243 quality press articles, and 834 tabloid press articles were coded. Consistent with research on news values and framing the results suggest that quality and tabloid papers alike amplified A/H1N1 risks by emphasizing conflict and damage, presenting information in a more dramatized way, and using risk-amplifying frames to a greater extent and risk-attenuating frames to a lesser extent than press releases. To some extent, the quality and tabloid press differed in how risk information was presented. While tabloid press articles seemed to follow the leading quality press with regards to content and framing of health crisis coverage, they exhibited a stronger emphasis on drama and emotion in the way they presented information.

Roth, W. M. and N. Friesen (2014). "Nacherzeugung, Nachverstehen: A phenomenological perspective on how public understanding of science changes by engaging with online media." Public Understanding of Science 23(7): 850-865.	It is widely acknowledged in science education that everyday understandings and evidence are generally inconsistent with the scientific view of the matter: "heartache" has little to do with matters cardiopulmonary, and a rising or setting sun actually reflects the movements of the earth. How then does a member of the general public, which in many areas of science is characterized as "illiterate" and "non-scientific," come to regard something scientifically? Moreover, how do traditional unscientific (e.g., Ptolemaic) views continue their lives, even many centuries after scientists have overthrown them in what are termed scientific (e.g., Copernican) revolutions? In this study, we develop a phenomenological perspective, using Edmund Husserl's categories of Nacherzeugung and Nachverstehen, which provide descriptive explanations for our observations. These observations are contextualized in a case study using online video and historical materials concerning the motions of the heart and blood to exemplify our explanations.

Roth, W. M. and S. Lee (2002). "Scientific literacy as collective praxis." Public Understanding of Science 11(1): 33-56.	In this article, we conceive of scientific literacy as a property of collective activity rather than individual minds. We think of knowing and learning science as situated in and distributed across social and material aspects of a setting. To support the proposed conception, we provide several detailed cases from our three-year multi-site ethnographic study of science in one community, featuring different types of citizens who walk a creek, interact during an environment-oriented open-house event, discuss water problems, collect data, and have different conceptions of human-environment relations. The case studies show that collectively, much more advanced forms of scientific literacy are produced than any individual (including scientists) could produce. Creating opportunities for scientific literacy to emerge from collective activity, irrespective of whether one or more participants know some basic scientific facts, presents challenges to science educators very different from teaching basic facts and skills to individuals.

Rousseau, C., et al. (2015). "Public media communications about H1N1, risk perceptions and immunization behaviours: A Quebec-France comparison." Public Understanding of Science 24(2): 225-240.	During the H1N1 pandemic, governments tailored their communications plans in order to influence risk perception and promote public compliance with the public health plan measures. Considering the volume and the content of calls to flu information centres as indicators of the public risk perception, this mixed method study compares the relation between public communications, risk perception and immunization behaviour in Quebec and France. Results suggest that advocating for clear information and coordination between health authorities and the media promotes adherence to preventive behaviour. However, over-exaggerating the risks and minimizing the population's agency may undermine health authority credibility.

Rousseliere, D. and S. Rousseliere (2017). "Decomposing the effects of time on the social acceptability of biotechnology using age-period-cohort-country models." Public Understanding of Science 26(6): 650-670.	The study of European attitudes toward biotechnologies underlines a situation that is relatively contrasting in Europe. However, as different effects of time can influence the social attitudes (a life-cycle effect, a generational effect, and an exogenous temporal effect potentially affecting the entire population), an appropriate methodology should be used. To this end, age-period-cohort-country models have thus been estimated based on Eurobarometer data from 1991 onward. Applied to different data subsets, these models give similar results underlining the importance of the life-cycle effects as well as the heterogeneity of the link between political affiliation and biotechnologies attitudes across the European countries.

Rowan, K. E. (1994). "Why Rules for Risk Communication Are Not Enough - a Problem-Solving Approach to Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 14(3): 365-374.	Current work on risk communication offers practitioners helpful guidelines and rules such as ''speak clearly'' and ''speak with compassion.'' While important, these guidelines have limitations. They offer practitioners and scholars little aid in determining why a communication encounter failed. Also, they do not help practitioners anticipate and overcome likely difficulties in future risk situations, nor can they help locate information about how to reduce these difficulties. To overcome the limitations of rule-based approaches to risk communication, this paper describes a diagnostic or problem-solving approach. This approach maintains that instead of rules, people need bases for anticipating likely obstacles to effective communication and selecting approaches that reduce these difficulties. Research on building trust, increasing awareness, deepening comprehension, gaining agreement, and motivating action is available in fields such as communication, educational psychology, science education, marketing, counseling, negotiation, and disaster response. This paper describes a framework that assists scholars and practitioners in: (a) identifying communication goals; (b) determining principal obstacles to those goals; and (c) selecting research-based methods for overcoming or minimizing these difficulties and achieving communication objectives.

Rowan, K. E. (2012). "Learning Science in Informal Environments: People, Places, and Pursuits." Science Communication 34(6): 820-822.
	
Rowe, G., et al. (2000). "Newspaper reporting of hazards in the UK and Sweden." Public Understanding of Science 9(1): 59-78.	Public understanding of risks is likely to be informed by the media. We report a cross-national study looking at how newspapers in Sweden and the United Kingdom characterize a variety of risks, focusing on two months around the 10(th) anniversary of the Chernobyl accident. Approximately four times as many reports about risks were found in Sweden as in the U.K., possibly reflecting a Swedish safety culture. The Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) crisis dominated reporting in both countries, especially in the U.K. The proportion and pattern of reports on Chernobyl was similar across countries. However, in Sweden, there was an increase in reports about other nuclear hazards after the anniversary, suggesting that generalization of media concern may have occurred. Generally, BSE was discussed using a greater number of characterizations in the U.K., while Chernobyl was reported using more characterizations in Sweden. Reports about hazards tended lo be alarmist rather than reassuring, and rarely used statistics to express degrees of risk.

Rowe, G., et al. (2005). "Difficulties in evaluating public engagement initiatives: reflections on an evaluation of the UK GM Nation? Public debate about transgenic crops." Public Understanding of Science 14(4): 331-352.	In the realm of risk management, and policy-making more generally, "public engagement" is often advocated as an antidote to pathologies associated with traditional methods of policy-making, and associated deficit-model-driven communication strategies. The actual benefits of public engagement are, however, difficult to establish without thorough evaluation of specific engagement processes. Unfortunately, rigorous evaluation is difficult, and, perhaps for this reason, it has rarely been undertaken. In this paper we highlight a number of these difficulties in the light of our experiences in evaluating a major engagement initiative, namely the GM Nation? public debate on the possible commercialization of transgenic crops, which took place in Britain in 2003. The difficulties we identify seem likely to be relevant to many, if not most, engagement evaluations. They are concerned with both theoretical/normative (how one should evaluate) and practical (how one does evaluate) issues. We suggest a number of possible solutions to these evaluation difficulties.

Rowe, G., et al. (2008). "Analysis of a normative framework for evaluating public engagement exercises: reliability, validity and limitations." Public Understanding of Science 17(4): 419-441.	Over recent years, many policy-makers and academics have come to the view that involving the public in policy setting and decision-making (or "public engagement") is desirable. The theorized benefits of engagement (over traditional approaches) include the attainment of more satisfactory and easier decisions, greater trust in decision-makers, and the enhancement of public and organizational knowledge. Empirical support for these advantages is, however, scant. Engagement processes are rarely evaluated, and when they are, the quality of evidence is generally poor. The absence of standard effectiveness criteria, and instruments to measure performance against these, hinders evaluation, comparison, generalization and the accumulation of knowledge. In this paper one normative framework for evaluating engagement processes is considered. This framework was operationalized and used as part of the evaluation of a recent major UK public engagement initiative: the 2003 GM Nation? debate. The evaluation criteria and processes are described, and their validity and limitations are analyzed. Results suggest the chosen evaluation criteria have some validity, though they do not exhaustively cover all appropriate criteria by which engagement exercises ought to be evaluated. The paper concludes with suggestions on how to improve the framework.

Rowe, G., et al. (2006). "A comparison of responses to Internet and postal surveys in a public engagement context." Science Communication 27(3): 352-375.	Involving the public in policy setting, or public engagement, is becoming increasingly popular in many democratic societies. Among the various ways of enacting engagement, the use of the Internet to either collect opinions or conduct public debate is seen as holding out great promise. However, the benefits of using the Internet over other communication media are uncertain because empirical research is limited. This article describes a comparison of data collected through two different media in the context of a "real-life" event, the 2003 U.K. "GM Nation?" public debate. The results suggest that demographically, the samples answering the questionnaires in the different formats differed significantly. However, there were no consistent differences between the approaches on a number of different response effects.

Rowe, G., et al. (2010). "Public engagement in research funding: a study of public capabilities and engagement methodology." Public Understanding of Science 19(2): 225-239.	One trend in public engagement concerns involving the public in research priority setting. In this study members of the public were asked to select which of four potential projects (about food-related topics, presented by scientists) ought to be funded. The aim of the study was twofold: to trial and evaluate a method of engaging with the public about science, and to study the factors used by the public in making funding allocation decisions. Results suggest that, while participants enjoyed the process and appeared to learn from it, they were not particularly "representative"-a common problem with engagement approaches of this type. Results also suggest that participants' funding decisions were largely based on factors such as "benefit to society" and "personal relevance," though aspects such as the "likeability" and "trustworthiness" of the speaker may have played a role. Implications for involving the public in funding policy decisions are discussed.

Rowe, J. B. (2008). "Culture, Progress and the Media: The Shad as Synecdoche in Environmental News Coverage." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(3): 362-378.	This essay examined the use of synecdoche in newspaper coverage of a dispute over water rights between the Mattaponi Indians and the city of Newport News, Virginia. The Mattaponi used the shad as a rhetorical trope to explain the tribe's relationship to the river and their fears about the reservoir's impact. The reservoir proponents, however, treated the shad as a representation of the conflict surrounding the reservoir, and this construction was reflected in articles that appeared in The Daily Press, a local daily newspaper. This essay argued that, ultimately, the treatment of a single species as a synecdoche in environmental disputes undermined the Mattaponi's position. The media which are instrumental in defining environmental issues for the public, misinterpreted a rhetorical trope that was proffered as a representation for a complex set of values and instead focused attention on the species itself rather than the values that it represented.

Rowley, L. and K. A. Johnson (2018). "Anthropomorphic Anthropocentrism and the Rhetoric of Blackfish." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(6): 825-839.	The documentary film Blackfish has made a splash at the box office, impacting millions of viewers and prompting calls to legislatively prohibit orcas from being held in captive environments. This essay analyzes Blackfish in terms of its anthropomorphic communication techniques that attribute human qualities to orcas. We introduce the term anthropomorphic anthropocentrism to argue that the anthropomorphic construction of orcas in Blackfish may well be a story that is more about what it means to be human than a story about what it means to be orca. Furthermore, we explain the importance of anthropomorphic anthropocentrism as an analytical tool that navigates environmental and ecological frameworks. We conclude that anthropomorphic anthropocentrism's analysis of anthropomorphic rhetoric and the human epistemological assumptions it reflects, when taken together, offer significant insights into the ways environmental communication creates and/or disrupts human-nature relationships.

Rubincam, C. (2017). ""It's natural to look for a source": A qualitative examination of alternative beliefs about HIV and AIDS in Cape Town, South Africa." Public Understanding of Science 26(3): 369-384.	This article highlights how African men and women in South Africa account for the plausibility of alternative beliefs about the origins of HIV and the existence of a cure. This study draws on the notion of a street-level epistemology of trustknowledge generated by individuals through their everyday observations and experiencesto account for individuals' trust or mistrust of official claims versus alternative explanations about HIV and AIDS. Focus group respondents describe how past experiences, combined with observations about the power of scientific developments and perceptions of disjunctures in information, fuel their uncertainty and skepticism about official claims. HIV prevention campaigns may be strengthened by drawing on experiential aspects of HIV and AIDS to lend credibility to scientific claims, while recognizing that some doubts about the trustworthiness of scientific evidence are a form of skeptical engagement rather than of outright rejection.

Ruddat, M., et al. (2010). "Communication about a communication technology." Journal of Risk Research 13(3): 261-278.	Mobile telephony is a relatively new, but already widespread technology. The public is confronted with conflicting information about the possible health hazards due to electromagnetic fields (EMFs) of mobile phones and base stations, which is conveyed by representatives of politics, science, industry, the media and civil society. The subject of this research project was to investigate the effects of information activities by public and private actors in the field of mobile telephony. The research team conducted focus groups with citizens and experts, followed by a representative survey of the German public focusing on the effects of information and its sources on attitude formation with respect to mobile telephony. Three 'target groups' were identified. Unworried persons comprise the first group who evaluated the risks of electromagnetic radiation as rather harmless (low-concerned group, in short: LCG). The second group was composed of insecure persons who either have not yet formed an opinion on the topic or are still undecided (ambivalent group, AG). The third group consisted of persons who expressed major concerns regarding expected health threats due to exposure to EMFs (high-concerned group, HCG). We developed several behavioural guidelines that address the specific needs of these three groups in specific ways and through adequate channels in order to be more effective when communicating.

Rudge, D. W. (2005). "Did Kettlewell commit fraud? Re-examining the evidence." Public Understanding of Science 14(3): 249-268.	H.B.D. Kettlewell is famous for several investigations conducted in the early 1950s on the phenomenon of industrial melanism, which are widely regarded as the classic demonstration of natural selection. In a recent (2002) book-length popularization of this episode in the history of the science, science writer Judith Hooper draws attention to what she interprets as discrepancies in the results reported by Kettlewell in his first scientific papers on the subject. On the basis of correspondence among Kettlewell and his associates, a survey of scientific publications that mention outstanding questions surrounding the phenomenon, as well as interviews with his son, surviving colleagues, and scientists who have worked on industrial melanism, Hooper all but explicitly concludes that Kettlewell committed fraud. The following essay critically examines her evidence in support of this allegation, including her discussion of his character, the alleged motives, and whether fraud was even committed. None of Hooper's arguments is found to withstand careful scrutiny. The concluding section draws several conclusions about how history of science should be depicted to the public.

Rudiak-Gould, P. (2014). "Progress, decline, and the public uptake of climate science." Public Understanding of Science 23(2): 142-156.	Previous research has sought to explain public perception of climate change science in terms of individuals' prior commitment to such ideological stances as just-world belief, system justification, and liberalism/conservatism. One type of prior commitment that has received little formal attention in the literature is narratives of the moral trajectory of society. A theory of climate science uptake based on beliefs in societal progress or decline is more easily portable to non-Western settings; in a case study of global warming attitudes in the Marshall Islands, trajectory narratives indeed account for public belief, concern, blame, and response more aptly than existing theories, and accord well with qualitative analysis of Marshallese climate change discourse. In Western settings, progress/decline narratives may explain much of the variation in climate change attitudes previously accounted for by other ideological variables, promising a more penetrating explanation for the divergence of climate change attitudes within and between societies.

Rudy, A. and T. A. Ten Eyck (2006). "Institutional and/versus commercial media coverage: representations of the University of California, Berkeley-Novartis agreement." Public Understanding of Science 15(3): 343-358.	In 1998, a contract was signed between the University of California at Berkeley (UCB) and Novartis in which the latter agreed to give UCB's Department of Plant and Microbial Biology US$25 million over a five year period. This Agreement was the foundation for debates that split the university over issues related to corporate control of the university, the environmental and social consequences of biotechnology, intellectual property rights, and academic freedom. This paper investigates the ways in which the Agreement was presented within the public relations office of UCB and the popular press, as well as reactions to that coverage. Data were collected through archival and web-based searches and interviews with individuals connected to the Agreement.

Rughinis, C. (2011). "A Lucky Answer to a Fair Question: Conceptual, Methodological, and Moral Implications of Including Items on Human Evolution in Scientific Literacy Surveys." Science Communication 33(4): 501-532.	The article discusses acceptance of evolution and its relevance for measuring scientific literacy. The author analyzes the National Science Foundation knowledge quiz in relation to theoretical, methodological, and moral arguments, proposing a distinction between quiet and animated scientific constructs. When a public learns of evolution as an animated construct, its acceptance is a poor indicator in a reflective model of scientific literacy. Acceptance of evolution may constitute a valuable indicator in reflective models of science knowledge for publics that engage with it disinterestedly, as well as in formative models of scientifically shaped worldviews, and it may also be studied in itself.

Ruhrmann, G., et al. (2015). "Frames of scientific evidence: How journalists represent the (un)certainty of molecular medicine in science television programs." Public Understanding of Science 24(6): 681-696.	For laypeople, media coverage of science on television is a gateway to scientific issues. Defining scientific evidence is central to the field of science, but there are still questions if news coverage of science represents scientific research findings as certain or uncertain. The framing approach is a suitable framework to classify different media representations; it is applied here to investigate the frames of scientific evidence in film clips (n = 207) taken from science television programs. Molecular medicine is the domain of interest for this analysis, due to its high proportion of uncertain and conflicting research findings and risks. The results indicate that television clips vary in their coverage of scientific evidence of molecular medicine. Four frames were found: Scientific Uncertainty and Controversy, Scientifically Certain Data, Everyday Medical Risks, and Conflicting Scientific Evidence. They differ in their way of framing scientific evidence and risks of molecular medicine.

Ruiz-Mallen, I. and M. T. Escalas (2012). "Scientists Seen by Children: A Case Study in Catalonia, Spain." Science Communication 34(4): 520-545.	Evidence shows that people in Western societies often have a stereotypical image of science and scientists, but studies have mainly focused on English-speaking countries. This article assesses children's and adolescents' perceptions of scientists in Catalonia, Spain. An analysis of the perceived image of scientists was conducted using 236 drawings. Findings suggest that Catalan children perceive scientists as stereotypical and that this image is dominant among boys older than 12 years. To reduce the gap between children's perceptions and scientists' reality, more efforts must be addressed from science communication research and science education institutions.

Ruiz-Mallen, I., et al. (2018). "From White Lab Coats and Crazy Hair to Actual Scientists: Exploring the Impact of Researcher Interaction and Performing Arts on Students' Perceptions and Motivation for Science." Science Communication 40(6): 749-777.	We examine the impact of researchers' interaction and drama-based techniques when learning science on students' views of scientists and motivations for studying science. We do so through mixed-methods in five secondary schools in three countries. Students changed their perception of scientists toward a less stereotyped image, particularly where their interaction with researchers was higher. Pupils' interest for scientific careers significantly increased where drama-based techniques were more inserted into the pedagogical approach. Promoting long-term interaction with scientists in school settings combined with embedded drama-based methods in science learning/teaching can contribute to reconstructing students' views on who can be engaged in science.

Ruiz-Mallen, I., et al. (2016). "Citizen Science: Toward Transformative Learning." Science Communication 38(4): 523-534.	Citizen science can raise people's understanding of science while helping scientists conduct their research. Yet its potential for driving transformative learning is empirically underexplored. We present the results of a preliminary study with secondary school students engaged in a long-term citizen science project, from the formulation of the research questions to data analysis and discussion. Students learnt about and increased their interest in neuroscience. They were also able to reflect on the role of science for society and valued their involvement as active participants in the research. We discuss the opportunities and challenges of approaching citizen science for transformative learning.

Rundgren, C. J., et al. (2012). "Are you SLiM? Developing an instrument for civic scientific literacy measurement (SLiM) based on media coverage." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 759-773.	The purpose of this study is to develop an instrument to assess civic scientific literacy measurement (SLiM), based on media coverage. A total of 50 multiple-choice items were developed based on the most common scientific terms appearing in media within Taiwan. These questions covered the subjects of biology (45.26%, 22 items), earth science (37.90%, 19 items), physics (11.58%, 6 items) and chemistry (5.26%, 3 items). A total of 1034 students from three distinct groups (7th graders, 10th graders, and undergraduates) were invited to participate in this study. The reliability of this instrument was 0.86 (KR 20). The average difficulty of the SLiM ranged from 0.19 to 0.91, and the discrimination power was 0.1 to 0.59. According to participants' performances on SLiM, it was revealed that 10th graders (Mean = 37.34 +/- 0.23) performed better than both undergraduates (Mean = 33.00 +/- 0.33) and 7th graders (Mean = 26.73 +/- 0.45) with significant differences in their SLiM.

Rundgren, S. N. (2011). "How does background affect attitudes to socioscientific issues in Taiwan?" Public Understanding of Science 20(6): 722-732.	Based upon the goal of scientific literacy and the importance of socioscientific issues (SSIs), the purpose of this study was to investigate the Taiwanese public's awareness of, inclinations to buy/use, and their attitudes towards three attributes of SSIs including genetically modified food (GM food), organic food, and DDT and malaria (DDT). Data from a total of 865 participants across ten populations (six different educational levels and four different vocations) were validated and analyzed. The results revealed that the awareness regarding GM food and DDT increased with the levels of education. The inclinations to buy/use and the attitudes towards the three SSIs, were not related to levels of education, vocation or gender, but were related to attributes of the SSIs. The implications for education and policy development are discussed.

Rundmo, T. and L. Sjoberg (1998). "Risk perception by offshore oil personnel during bad weather conditions." Risk Analysis 18(1): 111-118.	This article presents the results of analyses of employee subjective risk assessments caused by platform movements on an offshore oil installation in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea. The results are based on a self-completion questionnaire survey conducted among 179 respondents covering three shifts on the platform. The data collection was carried out during the spring of 1994. A minority expressed worry due to platform movements. A greater proportion of the personnel stated worry about the construction of the platform. The personnel were more unsafe when they assessed their own safety attitudes with regard to specific potentially hazardous consequences of platform movements. Two approaches aimed at modeling worry and concern caused by platform movements were tested. The models were the mental imagery approach and the rationalistic approach. The rationalistic and mental imagery models fitted equally well. Implications of the results for risk communication are discussed.

Runge, K. K., et al. (2018). "Protective Progressives to Distrustful Traditionalists: A Post Hoc Segmentation Method for Science Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(8): 1023-1045.	This study demonstrates a post-hoc segmentation that is effective in creating distinct and robust segments of interest for researchers and practitioners in science communication. We use agglomerative hierarchical clustering to classify survey respondents based on answers to a short, five-item battery of questions drawn from variables that are frequently used in science communication. Resulting segments demonstrate strong differences in regards to demographics, issue-specific science knowledge, attention to media, sentiment toward media, and social networking site use. We assess the utility of the segments through a series of regression analyses in order to determine differences among segments with regards to intent to seek information about three science issues: fracking, nanotechnology, and synthetic biology.

Rusanen, T. (2002). "Challenging the risk society - The case of Finland." Science Communication 24(2): 198-208.	Recent Eurobarometer surveys in 1996 and 1999 show that Finland has very low risk perception in relation to biotechnology when compared to other similarly knowledgeable, technologically advanced European countries. This article explores factors that may contribute to relatively low risk perceptions in relation to biotechnology. Inglehart's materialist-postmaterialist schema is used to analyze values in postindustrial Finland as a background to public risk perception. In Finland, uniquely, postindustrial socioeconomic conditions may coexist with traditionally materialist values. Finnish risk perceptions in relation to biotechnology are a proxy for the study of the interrelationships between industrial (economic) modernization and cultural values in contemporary European societies.

Russell, N. (2007). "Science and scientists in Victorian and Edwardian literary novels: insights into the emergence of a new profession." Public Understanding of Science 16(2): 205-222.	Literary fiction has seldom been seriously considered as a mode of science communication. Here, I review novels from the 19th century canon of English literature in which characters either have, or aspire to have, substantive professional scientific roles to see what insights they provide into the practice of science in the Victorian and Edwardian eras. They reflect the historical transition of science from an intellectual hobby to a paid occupation, but also reveal that while a career in science became possible for a wider range of people, it seldom allowed these new entrants to undertake fundamental scientific research.

Russell, N. (2009). "The New Men Scientists at Work in Popular British Fiction Between the Early 1930s and the Late 1960s." Science Communication 31(1): 29-56.	Science communication should include some account of doing science as well as of its product; new scientific knowledge. Fiction and drama are well placed to communicate the process of doing science although, in practice, popular novels on this theme are rare. One exception is the collectivist period in British history from the early 1930s to the late 1960s, when several science-trained authors wrote popular novels about doing science. They gave reasonably sophisticated accounts of the practice, philosophy, sociology and politics of science and their representations of these activities are outlined here. If historical context was a major factor in these novels being written, this may explain why contemporary popular fiction about science is hard to publish. The economic upheavals of 2008 may herald a new era of managed capitalism which might trigger a fresh wave of fictional representations of science.

Russill, C. (2008). "Tipping Point Forewarnings in Climate Change Communication: Some Implications of an Emerging Trend." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(2): 133-153.	Prominent British and American sources now seek to structure public understanding of climate change by issuing "tipping point'' forewarnings of danger with increasing frequency. This emerging trend announces a shift in the way we are likely to perceive and respond to climate change dangers. This paper reviews key statements to suggest a significant dimension of this trend is its enrollment of epidemiological terminology to communicate urgent and uncertain threats. First, key events in the popular employment of epidemiological and public health models of explanation are reviewed. Second, the author discusses the climate change "debate'' to illuminate the limitations involved in treating climate change as a public issue detached from other problems involving atmospheric science. Third, the author reconstructs the tipping point tendency in this context. The essay concludes that the use of this concept signals a broader trend toward epidemiological models of explanation likely to activate public health styles of intervention for addressing climate change impacts. Some implications are briefly discussed.

Russill, C. (2011). "Truth and opinion in climate change discourse: The Gore-Hansen disagreement." Public Understanding of Science 20(6): 796-809.	In this paper, I discuss the "inconvenient truth" strategy of Al Gore. I argue that Gore's notion of truth upholds a conception of science and policy that narrows our understanding of climate change discourse. In one notable exchange, Gore and NASA scientist, James Hansen, disagreed about whether scientific statements based on Hansen's computer simulations were truth or opinion. This exchange is featured in An Inconvenient Truth, yet the disagreement is edited from the film and presented simply as an instance of Hansen speaking "inconvenient truth." In this article, I compare the filmic representation of Hansen's testimony with the congressional record. I place their exchange in a broader historical perspective on climate change disputation in order to discuss the implications of Gore's perspective on truth.

Ruth, A., et al. (2005). "Trying to relate - Media relations training needs of agricultural scientists." Science Communication 27(1): 127-145.	This study uses a descriptive survey to examine the perceptions agricultural scientists have of the news media and the perceived need for media relations skills. The results showed that respondents were more negative about national news coverage and more positive about local news coverage of agricultural and scientific stories. They also were more favorable in their perceptions of coverage of general science topics than of stories in their agricultural discipline. Significant differences were found in respondents' confidence in communicating with the news media on the basis of gender and age. Overall, respondents were confident in their media relations capabilities; however, areas in which respondents indicated they might take training included communicating in crisis situations and writing newspaper columns.

Rydin, Y. (1999). "Contested natures." Public Understanding of Science 8(4): 353-354.
	
Ryghaug, M., et al. (2011). "Making sense of global warming: Norwegians appropriating knowledge of anthropogenic climate change." Public Understanding of Science 20(6): 778-795.	This paper studies how people reason about and make sense of human-made global warming, based on ten focus group interviews with Norwegian citizens. It shows that the domestication of climate science knowledge was shaped through five sense-making devices: news media coverage of changes in nature, particularly the weather, the coverage of presumed experts' disagreement about global warming, critical attitudes towards media, observations of political inaction, and considerations with respect to everyday life. These sense-making devices allowed for ambiguous outcomes, and the paper argues four main outcomes with respect to the domestication processes: the acceptors, the tempered acceptors, the uncertain and the sceptics.

Saari, M. A., et al. (1998). "Endangered species: science writers in the Canadian daily press." Public Understanding of Science 7(1): 61-81.	The last comprehensive study of Canadian science journalists and science reporting was done over 20 years ago (Dubas and Martel 1973). A more recent content analysis of seven major Canadian dailies found most science stories are "hard" news in style and originate from wire sources (Einsiedel 1992).
This 1994 survey of 105 of Canada's daily English-language newspapers and their commitment to science journalism revealed a general weakening and dilution of reporter allocation. Over 50 percent of Canadian dailies did not allocate a science reporter. Only 18 full-time science reporters were identified. A follow-up of 45 journalists covering science at least half-time revealed most covered science policy. The vast majority had no science training. Time problems and competing demands hindered professional development.
Confirming suggestions of previous literature, this study also indicates the Canadian daily newspaper structure is not supportive of the style of reportage required for quality science writing, nor of the development of such writers.

Sachsman, D. B. (1999). "Commentary: Should reporters use risk as a determinant of environmental coverage?" Science Communication 21(1): 88-95.	Although many of the news sources that provide environmental information to the media discuss environmental issues in terms of degree of risk, journalists; continue to rely on their own traditional determinants of news. They cover the politics, the economics, the social aspects, Md even the racial arpects of environmental stories, in addition to the scientific questions involved. By hanging on to their own ways of looking at things, the media have steered clear of the influence of those involved in environmental affairs. They have set their own environmental agendas instead of relying on the value judgments of their sources.

Sachsman, D. B. and J. Simon (2006). "Regional issues, national norms - A four-region analysis of US environment reporters." Science Communication 28(1): 93-121.	Does a national norm exist for environment reporters, or do they differ by region? This study used a census approach to examine environmental journalists in four regions of the United States. Across all four regions, these reporters spent much of their time covering nonenvironment stories. They relied more often on local and state sources than on national sources and used a variety of story frames and angles to construct their reporting. In discussing barriers to reporting, they were more likely to cite such issues as time constraints or the size of the news hole rather than interference by editors or advertisers. Most felt the need to remain objective, rejecting calls for advocacy or a civic-journalism approach. The study found more similarities across the regions than differences, suggesting that there is a national norm for covering the environment.

Sachsman, D. B., et al. (2002). "The environment reporters of New England." Science Communication 23(4): 410-441.	Who are the reporters covering environmental issues in the United States? As the first step in a nationwide series of regional studies of environment reporters conducted over time, the researchers identified and interviewed 55 environment reporters working for New England daily newspapers and television stations in winter and spring 2000. The study found environment reporters working at half the regions newspapers and only four of the television stations. The New England environment reporters ranked everyday, practical journalistic process concerns such as time constraints and the size of the news hole as the most frequent barriers to reporting on the environment. They also said their sources most often came from government, and their stories often contained a variety of factors, including a human-interest angle, a government angle, and a pollution angle. Many wished to aid the environment while stili remaining objective in their reporting.

Sachsman, D. B., et al. (2004). "Risk and the environment reporters: a four-region analysis." Public Understanding of Science 13(4): 399-416.	Who are the environment reporters who explain the science of the environment to the general public? Do they consider risk when writing environmental stories'? How often do they say they use a risk assessment angle compared to other issues? Are they concerned that they may be exaggerating environmental risks, excessively frightening their readers and viewers?
This study used a census approach to interview 354 environment reporters in four regions of the United States. The majority of environment reporters in all four regions said they used risk angles at least sometimes, many more than might have been true in the past. However, the journalists said they more frequently framed their stories using government, human-interest, business, nature, pollution, politics, science, and health angles, and some reporters, ranging from 28.3 percent in New England to 41.8 percent in the Pacific Northwest, said they rarely or never included risk assessment in their environmental stories. Although most journalists in the four regions did not believe that news reports generally sensationalized environmental risks, some reporters (16.9-25.0 percent) said that environmental journalists generally have overblown environmental risks, unduly alarming the public.

Sakellari, M. (2015). "Cinematic climate change, a promising perspective on climate change communication." Public Understanding of Science 24(7): 827-841.	Previous research findings display that after having seen popular climate change films, people became more concerned, more motivated and more aware of climate change, but changes in behaviors were short-term. This article performs a meta-analysis of three popular climate change films, The Day after Tomorrow (2005), An Inconvenient Truth (2006), and The Age of Stupid (2009), drawing on research in social psychology, human agency, and media effect theory in order to formulate a rationale about how mass media communication shapes our everyday life experience. This article highlights the factors with which science blends in the reception of the three climate change films and expands the range of options considered in order to encourage people to engage in climate change mitigation actions.

Salvador, M. and T. Clarke (2011). "The Weyekin Principle: Toward an Embodied Critical Rhetoric." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(3): 243-260.	This essay offers the weyekin principle to address the symbol-material, human-nature dualisms found in much of our theory and critiqued by a growing number of environmental communication scholars. The authors see two core requirements for transforming our engagement with the nonhuman: first, a way of attending to or interpreting natural phenomena that opens our awareness to other-than-symbolic modes of experience; and second, an embodied critique that expresses the inherent tensions of the symbolic-material interface.

Salvador, M. and T. Norton (2011). "The Flood Myth in the Age of Global Climate Change." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(1): 45-61.	When released, The Day After Tomorrow was widely described by critics and the movie's creators as a pro-environmentalist film. This essay argues that The Day After Tomorrow articulates a variation of apocalyptic discourse identified as a flood myth. The authors conclude that this version of the flood myth largely undermines contemporary environmental discourse that attempts to generate public activism in addressing ecological problems, by replacing an emphasis on human efficacy with symbolic vindication and exchanging collective effort for individual survivalism. The film thus serves as a cautionary tale about the potential consequences of contemporary mythic discourse presented as supporting environmental activism.

Samuel, G., et al. (2017). "UK science press officers, professional vision and the generation of expectations." Public Understanding of Science 26(1): 55-69.	Science press officers can play an integral role in helping promote expectations and hype about biomedical research. Using this as a starting point, this article draws on interviews with 10 UK-based science press officers, which explored how they view their role as science reporters and as generators of expectations. Using Goodwin's notion of professional vision', we argue that science press officers have a specific professional vision that shapes how they produce biomedical press releases, engage in promotion of biomedical research and make sense of hype. We discuss how these insights can contribute to the sociology of expectations, as well as inform responsible science communication.

Samuel, G. N. and B. Farsides (2018). "Genomics England's implementation of its public engagement strategy: Blurred boundaries between engagement for the United Kingdom's 100,000 Genomes project and the need for public support." Public Understanding of Science 27(3): 352-364.	The United Kingdom's 100,000 Genomes Project has the aim of sequencing 100,000 genomes from National Health Service patients such that whole genome sequencing becomes routine clinical practice. It also has a research-focused goal to provide data for scientific discovery. Genomics England is the limited company established by the Department of Health to deliver the project. As an innovative scientific/clinical venture, it is interesting to consider how Genomics England positions itself in relation to public engagement activities. We set out to explore how individuals working at, or associated with, Genomics England enacted public engagement in practice. Our findings show that individuals offered a narrative in which public engagement performed more than one function. On one side, public engagement was seen as good practice'. On the other, public engagement was presented as core to the project's success - needed to encourage involvement and ultimately recruitment. We discuss the implications of this in this article.

Sanchez-Mora, C., et al. (2015). "Public communication of science in Mexico: Past, present and future of a profession." Public Understanding of Science 24(1): 38-52.	In this article, we offer an analysis of the evolution of the professional field of public communication of science in Mexico, particularly at the National Autonomous University of Mexico, the influences it has received from other countries, the impact it has on Mexican society and some of its relationships with other Latin American countries. We present examples of successful programmes in different mass media and an analysis of the evolution and diversification of science communicators over the last four decades.

Sanderson, S. C., et al. (2005). "The effects of a genetic information leaflet on public attitudes towards genetic testing." Public Understanding of Science 14(2): 213-224.	Genetics opinion surveys often include information to ensure that respondents have sufficient understanding to give informed responses. The information is assumed to be neutral but may skew responses. We assessed the impact of a seemingly "neutral" information leaflet on attitudes towards genetic testing among 1,024 survey respondents, half of whom received the leaflet. The leaflet group reported higher levels of subjective understanding of genetic testing (68 percent vs. 53 percent), were more interested in genetic testing (81 percent vs. 77 percent), and held more positive attitudes towards genetics than people who did not receive the leaflet. Information leaflets may have the intended effect of increasing understanding, but may also unintentionally influence reported views on genetics. In the light of the weight given to public consultation in today's governance and regulation of human genetics, increased awareness of how even seemingly neutral information can influence public attitudes is recommended.

Sandman, P. M., et al. (1993). "Agency Communication, Community Outrage, and Perception of Risk - 3 Simulation Experiments." Risk Analysis 13(6): 585-598.	Three experimental studies were conducted employing hypothetical news stories to compare the effects on reader risk perceptions of two situations: when agency communication behavior was reported to be responsive to citizens' risk concerns, vs. when the agency was reported to be unresponsive. In the first two experiments, news stories of public meetings filled with distrust and controversy led to ratings indicating greater perceived risk than news stories reporting no distrust or controversy, even though the risk information was held constant. This effect appeared clearly when the differences in meeting tone were extreme and subjects made their ratings from their recall of the stories, but it was much weaker when the differences were moderate and subjects were allowed to go back over the news stories to help separate risk information from conflict information. In the third experiment, news stories about a spill cleanup systematically varied the seriousness of the spill, the amount of technical information provided in the story, and the agency behavior and resulting community outrage. The outrage manipulation significantly affected affective and cognitive components of perceived risk, but not hypothetical behavioral intentions. Seriousness and technical detail had very little effect on perceived risk.

Sandman, P. M., et al. (1994). "High-Risk or Low - How Location on a Risk Ladder Affects Perceived Risk." Risk Analysis 14(1): 35-45.	Efforts to explain risk magnitude often rely on a ''risk ladder'' in which exposure levels and associated risk estimates are arrayed with low levels at the bottom and high ones at the top. Two experiments were conducted to test the hypothesis that perceived threat and intended mitigation vary with the location of the subject's assigned level on the risk ladder. Subjects were New Jersey homeowners, asked to assume a particular level of radon or asbestos contamination in their homes, to read a brochure explaining the risk, and then to complete a questionnaire. Both studies found that the difference between an assigned level one-quarter of the way up the ladder and the same level three-quarters of the way up the ladder significantly affected threat perception; the effect on mitigation intentions was significant in only one of the studies. Variations in assigned risk also affected threat perception and mitigation intentions. Variations in test magnitude (e.g., 15 fibers per liter vs. 450 fibers per cubic foot, roughly equivalent risks) had no effect, nor did the distinction between radon and asbestos affect the dependent variables. These findings suggest that communicators can design risk ladders to emphasize particular risk characteristics.

Sannazzaro, J. (2016). "Citizen cartography, strategies of resistance to established knowledge and collective forms of knowledge building." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 346-360.	Cultivation of genetically modified soybeans with the use of herbicides is now becoming widespread in Argentina. This work addresses an emblematic case of knowledge articulation between experts, professionals and communities, namely, the case of an association of people affected by fumigation Grupos de Pueblos Fumigados (GPF). The GPF warns against agrochemical spraying in urban areas, and its activists collect and disseminate information about its impact with a view to banning the practice. Here, we apply Parthasarathy's framework, used to analyse the strategies employed by activists to break the expertise barrier, to the case of the GPF, adding a new category to her original four strategies. There is an institutionalizing potential in these social and environmental movements, many of which are organized in the form of Civic Assemblies. The composition of the assemblies reflects a heterogeneous and multi-sectorial character; they articulate a new kind of knowledge that can be an appropriate interlocutor for traditional expert knowledge.

Sanne, J. M. (2008). "Framing risks in a safety-critical and hazardous job: risk-taking as responsibility in railway maintenance." Journal of Risk Research 11(5): 645-657.	In risk management research, risk-taking is mostly treated as deviation that calls for improved risk communication. I argue, however, that risk-taking should be seen as expressing a rationale of its own; thus, improving safety requires that this rationale be adequately understood and that the conditions that reproduce risk-taking be changed. This argument is supported by an ethnography of railway maintenance in Sweden. Railway technicians are charged with maintaining the railway infrastructure to support safe and punctual trains, an assignment that exposes them to occupational hazards. The technicians' claim of occupational responsibility for transportation safety risks is framed by two notions in occupational discourse: first, the safety-critical nature of their tasks, and second, the notion of service to the general public. Technician interdependence in achieving occupational safety requires mutual responsibility in the team. Technicians justify occupational risk-taking, claiming it is sometimes needed to achieve production goals given the available time and resources and the manageability of the risks taken. Finally, I stress the need for technicians to change their frames of reference and for employers to assume responsibility for reducing the need for risk-taking.

Santella, N., et al. (2010). "Petroleum and Hazardous Material Releases from Industrial Facilities Associated with Hurricane Katrina." Risk Analysis 30(4): 635-649.	Hurricane Katrina struck an area dense with industry, causing numerous releases of petroleum and hazardous materials. This study integrates information from a number of sources to describe the frequency, causes, and effects of these releases in order to inform analysis of risk from future hurricanes. Over 200 onshore releases of hazardous chemicals, petroleum, or natural gas were reported. Storm surge was responsible for the majority of petroleum releases and failure of storage tanks was the most common mechanism of release. Of the smaller number of hazardous chemical releases reported, many were associated with flaring from plant startup, shutdown, or process upset. In areas impacted by storm surge, 10% of the facilities within the Risk Management Plan (RMP) and Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) databases and 28% of SIC 1311 facilities experienced accidental releases. In areas subject only to hurricane strength winds, a lower fraction (1% of RMP and TRI and 10% of SIC 1311 facilities) experienced a release while 1% of all facility types reported a release in areas that experienced tropical storm strength winds. Of industrial facilities surveyed, more experienced indirect disruptions such as displacement of workers, loss of electricity and communication systems, and difficulty acquiring supplies and contractors for operations or reconstruction (55%), than experienced releases. To reduce the risk of hazardous material releases and speed the return to normal operations under these difficult conditions, greater attention should be devoted to risk-based facility design and improved prevention and response planning.

Santos, S. (2006). "The diversity of everyday ideas about inherited disorders." Public Understanding of Science 15(3): 259-275.	The focus of this paper is to explore the diversity of people's ideas about inherited disorders. I propose a theoretical model that incorporates a number of variables and attempts to reconcile the ways that individuals adopt and integrate lay and scientific aspects of knowledge. This model serves to make links between socially shared knowledge and scientific knowledge through the proposition of the modified Piaget's concept of syncretism of explanation; the model also makes links between two different domains, knowledge and the "family story of the disease." Although it has not been tested, the model might serve as a heuristic tool, giving rise to a relevant research hypothesis to be addressed in future research.

Santos, S. L. and C. Chess (2003). "Evaluating citizen advisory boards: The importance of theory and participant-based criteria and practical implications." Risk Analysis 23(2): 269-279.	The role of risk communication and public participation in environmental and public policy decision making has significantly increased over the last 15 years and remains an important social policy issue. In spite of this emphasis, government officials and participants in the process continue to struggle with what makes for "good" public participation. This study used two frameworks-one theoretical and one participant-based-to evaluate two U.S. Army Restoration Advisory Boards (RABs). The theoretical framework explores the extent to which the RABs facilitate Habermas's idealized conditions of speech as related to fairness. Not surprisingly, we found that the two RABs do not consistently foster the idealized aspects of fairness suggested by Habermas. The participant-based criteria were elicited through interviews with participants from the various stakeholder groups represented on the RAB, direct observation of RAB meetings, and a review of RAB-related documents. We found that participants' value outcomes (the results of participatory processes) and not just the process itself, which is the focus of the theoretical framework. We also found that participants in the various stakeholder groups had different perceptions of the goals of the participatory process, which were closely related to their notions of success. Our results illustrate both the complexity and importance of using multiple frameworks for evaluating participatory efforts and the need for more systematic evaluation.

Santos, S. L., et al. (1996). "Industry response to SARA title III: Pollution prevention, risk reduction, and risk communication." Risk Analysis 16(1): 57-66.	This paper reports results from a survey designed to: (1) evaluate changes in industrial pollution prevention practices since the passage of the landmark environmental legislation, the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, also known as SARA Title III, and (2) identify those factors that may contribute to an industrial facility engaging in pollution prevention and risk communication activities. The survey was conducted under a Cooperative Agreement between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Columbia University Center for Risk Communication. Evidence from the survey indicates that a wide variety of waste and pollution reduction activities have been undertaken since passage of the Act. Virtually all facilities surveyed in the pulp and paper, chemical, and petroleum and refining industries reported that they had reduced pollutants or wastes on at least one often measures, including reducing toxic air emissions. Most facilities indicated paying more attention to pollution prevention activities as a result of SARA Title III and half reported that their communication activities have also increased.

Santos, S. P. G., et al. (2018). "Narrating the First "Three-Parent Baby": The Initial Press Reactions From the United Kingdom, the United States, and Mexico." Science Communication 40(4): 419-441.	In 2016, the New Scientist announced the birth and good health of the world's first baby conceived using spindle nuclear transfer (SNT). The story was immediately circulated worldwide. In this article, we analyze 39 articles published within the first 48 hours of the announcement, in the Mexican, British, and U.S. press. These articles constitute the initial press reactions to the announcement, and as such, they offer a narrative ground on which SNT could thereafter be discussed. We argue that as a media event, the articles performed the task of rendering SNT, a cultural novelty, as culturally and technologically feasible.

Sanz-Menendez, L. and G. G. Van Ryzin (2015). "Economic crisis and public attitudes toward science: A study of regional differences in Spain." Public Understanding of Science 24(2): 167-182.	Although there is little theory about the effects of economic conditions on public support for science and technology (S&T), some evidence suggests that an economic crisis could produce a decline in support for S&T because of more pressing priorities, such as jobs and social services. But the public may also view S&T as a strategic pathway out of an economic slump. We test these competing hypotheses employing two national surveys from Spain, implemented before (2006) and after (2010) the onset of a severe economic crisis. We find that, in regions hit hardest by the crisis (compared to less-affected regions), trust in the benefits of S&T increased substantially, as did general public interest in S&T. Similarly, residents of the hardest-hit regions were more likely after the crisis to choose S&T (out of a list of policy areas) as a priority for government, and somewhat more likely to express support for increases in government S&T spending. Theoretical and policy implications are discussed.

Sapp, S. G., et al. (2013). "Science Communication and the Rationality of Public Opinion Formation." Science Communication 35(6): 734-757.	Because research indicates that people's value orientations significantly affect their opinions about advanced technologies some risk scholars argue that technology policy should reflect the recommendations of experts rather than the opinions of a value-driven public. This suggested approach might be bolstered to the extent that people use substantive (value-driven) rather than formal (reason-driven) rationality when assessing the recommendations of experts. We found evidence that people's opinions are indeed influenced strongly by their substantive rationality. We nevertheless argue that technology policy formation should rely more rather than less upon public opinions, thereby encouraging further efforts at improving science communication theory and practice.

Sardo, A. M. and A. Grand (2016). "Science in Culture: Audiences' Perspective on Engaging With Science at a Summer Festival." Science Communication 38(2): 251-260.	In this commentary, we explore the factors that contributed to festival goers' choice to attend science-based events at a summer cultural festival. We evaluated the impact of such events on the audiences: their levels of engagement, reasons for participation, and their views on and reactions to the events. Presented with a variety of cultural events, attendances at science-based events were strong, with high levels of enjoyment and engagement with scientists and other speakers. Moreover, audiences saw science not as something distinct from cultural events but as just another option: Science was culture.

Satterfield, T. A., et al. (2004). "Discrimination, vulnerability, and justice in the face of risk." Risk Analysis 24(1): 115-129.	Recent research finds that perceived risk is closely associated with race and gender. In surveys of the American public, a subset of white males stand out for their uniformly low perceptions of environmental health risks, while most nonwhite and nonmale respondents reveal higher perceived risk. Such findings have been attributed to the advantageous position of white males in American social life. This article explores the linked possibility that this demographic pattern is driven not simply by the social advantages or disadvantages embodied in race or gender, but by the subjective experience of vulnerability and by sociopolitical evaluations pertaining to environmental injustice. Indices of environmental (in)justice and social vulnerability were developed as part of a U.S. National Risk Survey (n = 1,192) in order to examine their effect on perceived risk. It was found that those who regarded themselves as vulnerable and supported belief statements consistent with the environmental justice thesis offered higher risk ratings across a range of hazards. Multivariate analysis indicates that our measures of vulnerability and environmental (in)justice predict perceived risk but do not account for all of the effects of race and gender. The article closes with a discussion of the implications of these findings for further work on vulnerability and risk, risk communication, and risk management practices generally.

Savadori, L., et al. (2004). "Expert and public perception of risk from biotechnology." Risk Analysis 24(5): 1289-1299.	Risk perceptions of a series of biotechnology applications were examined in a public (nonexpert) sample and an expert sample. Compared with the experts, the public perceived all biotechnology applications as more risky. Both groups perceived food-related applications to be riskier than medical applications. Compared with the public, experts perceived both food and medical applications as less harmful and more useful. Experts also judged the risks posed from medical biotechnology applications as more familiar and acknowledged by people and science. Lay estimates of the risk of food applications were predicted by potential harm, potential benefits, science knowledge, and familiarity; experts' estimates were predicted only by harm and benefits. Lay estimates of the risk of medical applications were predicted by potential harm; experts' estimates were predicted by potential benefits, number and type of people exposed, and science knowledge. We discuss the implications of the results for risk communication about and management of different types of biotechnologies.

Savaget, P. and L. Acero (2018). "Plurality in understandings of innovation, sociotechnical progress and sustainable development: An analysis of OECD expert narratives." Public Understanding of Science 27(5): 611-628.	Deterministic theory and discourse on sociotechnical progress ignore the existence of multiple and equally viable pathways towards progress, obscure socioeconomic and environmental conflicting interests and values, and overshadow socially inclusive deliberative choices about policy strategies. Demystifying techno-determinism, by incorporating a plurality of understandings to policy appraisal, becomes a matter of not only democratic accountability but also of analytical rigour. This article analyses the normative and ontological understandings on scientific and technological pathways among a group of experts interviewed at one key Directorate of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, using Q-methodology. The three main framings detected do not correspond exclusively to any single innovation and development theoretical framework - namely Innovation Systems, Learning Systems, Catch-Up models or the science, technology and society approach. Each narrative organizes an array of policy understandings based upon different theories and practices. As these forms of discourse highly influence global policy recommendations, their plurality should be made explicit, negotiated and integrated into policymaking.

Schafer, M. S. (2009). "From Public Understanding to Public Engagement An Empirical Assessment of Changes in Science Coverage." Science Communication 30(4): 475-505.	Science communication is said to have changed in the past decades. It is widely assumed that science is no longer merely transported and translated by the mass media to a passive audience, but "medialized": Many authors believe that scientific issues are discussed extensively in the mass media nowadays, that these discussions are plural in its participants and in the arguments used, and that the issues at stake are evaluated controversially. It is still unclear, however, if this change applies to all science topics or only to some. The article at hand argues that science issues from different epistemic cultures can be expected to be "medialized" to different extents, and analyzes mass media coverage on stem cell research, human genome research, and neutrino research to underline this claim. The findings show that the described change only applies to some issues, and that further differentiation of the concept of "medialization" is necessary.

Schafer, M. S. (2012). "Taking stock: A meta-analysis of studies on the media's coverage of science." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 650-663.	The presentation of science in the mass media is one of the most important questions facing social scientists who analyse science. Accordingly, media coverage of science has been a constant focal point in the respective literature, and a flurry of such publications has appeared in the past few years. Yet the activity and growth of the respective research have not been accompanied by systematic overviews. This article aims to provide such an overview by means of a meta-analysis: it analyses existing studies systematically and provides an empirical overview of the literature. The analysis shows that while the research field grew significantly in the past few years and employs a variety of research strategies and methods, it has been biased in three ways: mainly natural sciences (and namely biosciences and medicine), Western countries, and print media have been analysed.

Schafer, M. S. (2016). "Social Science in Context: Historical, Sociological, and Global Perspectives." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 394-396.
	
Schafer, M. S. (2016). "Social Knowledge in the Making." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 394-396.
	
Schafer, M. S. (2016). "The Impact of the Social Sciences: How Academics and Their Research Make a Difference." Public Understanding of Science 25(3): 394-396.
	
Schafer, M. S. (2018). "Misinformation and Mass Audiences." Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 1013-1015.
	
Schafer, M. S., et al. (2018). "The different audiences of science communication: A segmentation analysis of the Swiss population's perceptions of science and their information and media use patterns." Public Understanding of Science 27(7): 836-856.	Few studies have assessed whether populations can be divided into segments with different perceptions of science. We provide such an analysis and assess whether these segments exhibit specific patterns of media and information use. Based on representative survey data from Switzerland, we use latent class analysis to reconstruct four segments: the "Sciencephiles," with strong interest for science, extensive knowledge, and a pronounced belief in its potential, who use a variety of sources intensively; the "Critically Interested," also with strong interest and support for science but with less trust in it, who use similar sources but are more cautious toward them; the "Passive Supporters" with moderate levels of interest, trust, and knowledge and tempered perceptions of science, who use fewer sources; and the "Disengaged," who are not interested in science, do not know much about it, harbor critical views toward it, and encounter it-if at all-mostly through television.

Schafer, M. S., et al. (2018). "Selling science 2.0: What scientific projects receive crowdfunding online?" Public Understanding of Science 27(5): 496-514.	Crowdfunding has emerged as an additional source for financing research in recent years. The study at hand identifies and tests explanatory factors influencing the success of scientific crowdfunding projects by drawing on news value theory, the reputation signaling approach, and economic theories of online payment. A standardized content analysis of 371 projects on English- and German-language platforms reveals that each theory provides factors influencing crowdfunding success. It shows that projects presented on science-only crowdfunding platforms have a higher success rate. At the same time, projects are more likely to be successful if their presentation includes visualizations and humor, the lower their targeted funding is, the less personal data potential donors have to relinquish and the more interaction between researchers and donors is possible. This suggests that after donors decide to visit a scientific crowdfunding platform, factors unrelated to science matter more for subsequent funding decisions, raising questions about the potential and implications of crowdfunding science.

Schafer, M. S. and I. Schlichting (2014). "Media Representations of Climate Change: A Meta-Analysis of the Research Field." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(2): 142-160.	A flurry of studies in recent years has analyzed the role of media in climate change communication. This article provides a systematic, large-scale, and up-to-date overview of the objects and characteristics of this research field through a meta-analysis. It identifies 133 relevant studies and analyzes them empirically. The results show that research activity has risen strongly over time, and that the analytical spectrum has expanded to include an increasing number of countries, more types of media including online and social media, and different methodological approaches. The analysis also demonstrates, however, that scholarship in the field still concentrates strongly on Western countries and print media.

Schapira, M. M., et al. (2004). "Agreement between scales in the measurement of breast cancer risk perceptions." Risk Analysis 24(3): 665-673.	The objective of this article is to compare the accuracy and numeric responses of breast cancer risk perception as measured by a frequency scale and percentage scale. A cross-sectional survey was conducted. Perceptions of five-year and lifetime breast cancer risk were measured using a frequency and a percentage scale. Estimation error was calculated as the absolute difference between actual breast cancer risk as determined by the Gail model and perceived risk. Agreement between scales was determined by calculating the mean and standard deviation of the difference between numeric responses. The study was conducted among women enrolled in two primary care clinics associated with an academic medical center. Two-hundred-fifty-four participants were recruited from one of the two participating internal medicine clinics. Inclusion criteria included female gender and age 40-84 years. Exclusion criteria included a history of breast cancer, dementia, or a lite expectancy of less than two years. The frequency scale was more accurate than the percentage scale in estimating lifetime risk (p = 0.05), but less accurate in estimating five-year risk (p < 0.02). Only 79 participants (31%) were considered consistent scale users, providing identical responses when using the frequency and percentage scale for a given risk estimate. Although the mean difference (percentage-frequency scale) for estimates of breast cancer lifetime risk was only 2.4, the empirically determined 90% limits of agreement between the frequency and percentage scale for lifetime risk were wide, from -30 to 40. Higher numeracy was associated with consistent use of scales (OR 1.61, 95% CI; 1.09-2.37). We report disagreement in breast cancer risk perceptions when measured by a frequency and a percentage scale. The accuracy and direction of bias associated with each scale varies according to the time frame of risk being assessed.

Schapira, M. M., et al. (2016). "Public engagement with scientific evidence in health: A qualitative study among primary-care patients in an urban population." Public Understanding of Science 25(5): 612-626.	The purpose of this study is to explore the experience and perspective of patients regarding scientific evidence in health and the degree that this information impacts health behavior and medical decision making. A focus group study was conducted. Participants were recruited from an urban primary-care practice. The focus group discussions were audio-recorded, transcribed verbatim, and coded by two independent investigators. Emergent themes were identified. Participants (n=30) ranged in age from 30 to 79years, 60% were female, 77% were black, and 50% had at least some college experience. Three thematic areas informed a wide range in level of interest regarding scientific study design and result information: (1) scientific literacy, (2) medical decision making style, and (3) impact of culture and community on decision making. Our findings indicate that communication strategies that incorporate key elements of scientific study design, methods, and results will most effectively translate findings from comparative effectiveness research to patient-informed decision making regarding evidence-based health interventions.

Scharrer, L., et al. (2017). "When science becomes too easy: Science popularization inclines laypeople to underrate their dependence on experts." Public Understanding of Science 26(8): 1003-1018.	Science popularization fulfills the important task of making scientific knowledge understandable and accessible for the lay public. However, the simplification of information required to achieve this accessibility may lead to the risk of audiences relying overly strongly on their own epistemic capabilities when making judgments about scientific claims. Moreover, they may underestimate how the division of cognitive labor makes them dependent on experts. This article reports an empirical study demonstrating that this easiness effect of science popularization occurs when laypeople read authentic popularized science depictions. After reading popularized articles addressed to a lay audience, laypeople agreed more with the knowledge claims they contained and were more confident in their claim judgments than after reading articles addressed to expert audiences. Implications for communicating scientific knowledge to the general public are discussed.

Scheer, D., et al. (2014). "The Distinction Between Risk and Hazard: Understanding and Use in Stakeholder Communication." Risk Analysis 34(7): 1270-1285.	A major issue in all risk communication efforts is the distinction between the terms "risk" and "hazard." The potential to harm a target such as human health or the environment is normally defined as a hazard, whereas risk also encompasses the probability of exposure and the extent of damage. What can be observed again and again in risk communication processes are misunderstandings and communication gaps related to these crucial terms. We asked a sample of 53 experts from public authorities, business and industry, and environmental and consumer organizations in Germany to outline their understanding and use of these terms using both the methods of expert interviews and focus groups. The empirical study made clear that the terms risk and hazard are perceived and used very differently in risk communication depending on the perspective of the stakeholders. Several factors can be identified, such as responsibility for hazard avoidance, economic interest, or a watchdog role. Thus, communication gaps can be reduced to a four-fold problem matrix comprising a semantic, conceptual, strategic, and control problem. The empirical study made clear that risks and hazards are perceived very differently depending on the stakeholders' perspective. Their own worldviews played a major role in their specific use of the two terms hazards and risks in communication.

Scheitle, C. P. and E. H. Ecklund (2017). "The influence of science popularizers on the public's view of religion and science: An experimental assessment." Public Understanding of Science 26(1): 25-39.	Research suggests that public figures can play an influential role in forming public opinion; yet, little research has experimentally tested the efficacy of public figures on the cognitive formation of boundaries. Using an experiment embedded within a nationally representative survey, we examine how two science popularizers, Francis Collins and Richard Dawkins, influence perceptions regarding the boundaries between religion and science. We find that learning of Dawkins does not influence people's perceptions of the religion-science relationship, while learning of Collins shifts respondents toward a collaborative view of religion and science. Findings suggest that figures with unexpected views might be more effective in changing conceptual boundaries.

Scheitle, C. P., et al. (2018). "Scientists and religious leaders compete for cultural authority of science." Public Understanding of Science 27(1): 59-75.	Measurement of public trust in sources of information about science primarily examines whether the public turns to the science communication industry for information about science. Research posits, however, that scientists are not the singular cultural authority on science. Here, we examine the extent to which people turn to religion and religious individuals for information about science. Drawing on a nationally representative survey of US adults, we examine what factorswhen individuals have a question about scienceshape respondent's likelihood of turning to science-based versus religion-based sources. Results show that religiosity is a strong positive predictor of looking to religious sources for scientific information, but it does not deter seeking out scientific sources. The results also show that interest in science has a positive influence on the likelihood of turning to a religious source.

Scheliga, K., et al. (2018). "Setting up crowd science projects." Public Understanding of Science 27(5): 515-534.	Crowd science is scientific research that is conducted with the participation of volunteers who are not professional scientists. Thanks to the Internet and online platforms, project initiators can draw on a potentially large number of volunteers. This crowd can be involved to support data-rich or labour-intensive projects that would otherwise be unfeasible. So far, research on crowd science has mainly focused on analysing individual crowd science projects. In our research, we focus on the perspective of project initiators and explore how crowd science projects are set up. Based on multiple case study research, we discuss the objectives of crowd science projects and the strategies of their initiators for accessing volunteers. We also categorise the tasks allocated to volunteers and reflect on the issue of quality assurance as well as feedback mechanisms. With this article, we contribute to a better understanding of how crowd science projects are set up and how volunteers can contribute to science. We suggest that our findings are of practical relevance for initiators of crowd science projects, for science communication as well as for informed science policy making.

Scheu, A. M. and A. Olesk (2018). "National Contextual Influences on Mediatization: The Comparison of Science Decision Makers in Estonia and Germany." Science Communication 40(3): 366-392.	The study investigates adaptations of organizations in the field of science to the requirements of mass media. Based on the current research, we assume that mediatization is advanced by the need of individual and collective actors for public attention and that this need varies depending on national structural factors. We compared Estonia and Germany where the science and media systems differ in their size and structure but have a similarly competitive funding environment. Our results demonstrate variability considering the intensity of reported implementations of media-related structural adaptations within organizations. These differences can be linked to country-specific structural factors.

Scheu, A. M., et al. (2014). "Medialization of Research Policy: Anticipation of and Adaptation to Journalistic Logic." Science Communication 36(6): 706-734.	This article researches the medialization of research policy in Germany. The concept of medialization focuses on adaptation processes by the micro (individuals), meso (organizations), and macro levels (social systems) of society to the logic of (mostly journalistic) mass media. Below, the focus lies on how decision makers in the field of research policy perceive the journalistic logic as well as adaptation processes to this logic in their fields of expertise and their organizations. The study is based on 35 semistandardized interviews with stakeholders in organizations from politics, science, and research funding.

Scheufele, D. A. (2018). "Beyond the Choir? The Need to Understand Multiple Publics for Science." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(8): 1123-1126.	Understanding different publics for science communication is more important than ever before. The articles in this special issue lay important groundwork for our field to develop a better understanding of how audience segments differ or overlap across issues, cultural contexts, stages of the issue cycle, and different analytic and methodological approaches. The long-term goal of this work should be to enable more effective communication with publics whose demographic, socio-structural, or value-based characteristics position them squarely outside of the proverbial choir that science communication is often preaching to.

Schibeci, R. and I. Barns (1998). "Gene technology communication facilitating public deliberation of pST gene technology." Science Communication 20(2): 204-226.	This article reports the second phase of a three-year project on public perceptions of biotechnology, conducted in Perth, Western Australia. The purposes of this second phase were (I) to further develop a computer-based method for investigating public perceptions of biotechnology with individuals and to extend the method to focus groups, and (2) to report the perceptions of "interested publics" about the use of a genetically engineered pig growth hormone, porcine somatotropin (pST). The authors developed a computer database of information about pST to stimulate, in interviews, respondents' articulation of their knowledge and perceptions of biotechnology. The database was a multimedia package, based on a HyperCard stack on a laptop computer; with information about pST in ten different categories. The indicative data of the pilot sets of interviews suggest that the study's methodology provides a fruitful approach to exploring the background knowledge and perceptions of different publics.

Schibeci, R., et al. (1997). "Public attitudes to gene technology: The case of the MacGregor's(R) tomato." Public Understanding of Science 6(2): 167-183.	This paper reports the pilot phase of a three-year project, 'Public perceptions of biotechnology', conducted in Perth, Western Australia. The purposes of this pilot investigation were (1) to develop a computer-based method for investigating public perceptions of biotechnology, and (2) to report the perceptions of four 'interested publics' about the Flavr Savr(TM)/MacGregor's(R) tomato, a genetically engineered tomato. By 'interested publics' we mean members of groups who are not experts in the field, but have an interest because of their membership of the group. We developed a computer-based database of information about this tomato to stimulate, in interviews, respondents' articulation of their knowledge and perceptions of biotechnology. The database was a multimedia package, based on a HyperCard stack on a Macintosh PowerBook 180C, with information about the tomato in ten different categories. The data suggest that our methodology has the potential to provide a fruitful approach to exploring the background knowledges and perceptions of different publics.

Schibeci, R. and J. Harwood (2007). "Stimulating authentic community involvement in biotechnology policy in Australia." Public Understanding of Science 16(2): 245-255.	This paper analyzes community involvement in biotechnology policy in Australia. Specifically, we examine the Gene Technology Act 2000 that governs gene technology in Australia and the roles of the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator and the Gene Technology Community Consultative Committee. We contend that the institutions that underpin biotechnology policy serve to hamper community involvement and reinforce a cognitive deficit model of community involvement. Finally, we propose how the situation could be turned around so that interested citizens can participate in authentic community involvement in biotechnology policy in Australia.

Schibeci, R., et al. (2006). "Community involvement in biotechnology policy? The Australian experience." Science Communication 27(3): 429-445.	The authors analyze the framework for public participation in Australia biotechnology policy and argue that participation is undermined by the institutional structures that were ostensibly designed to facilitate consultation. They conclude that for the moment, community consultation in the formulation of Australian biotechnology policy appears limited. Indeed, the Australian Gene Technology Act 2000 and the Gene Technology Community Consultative Committee Operating Procedures effectively exclude the community from participating in deliberations on biotechnology policy. The community continues to be treated as consumers of advice, rather than technological citizens who can make a genuine contribution to biotechnology policy.

Schicktanz, S. (2018). "Genetic risk and responsibility: reflections on a complex relationship." Journal of Risk Research 21(2): 236-258.	Responsibility is an important term to describe, understand and formulate moral assumptions related to the individual and social handling of risks. This paper examines three forms of emergence: an implicit moral, a descriptive-ethical and a normative-ethical one in the context of genetic risk. In social sciences and applied ethics, the term responsibility' has currently received attention by problematising how medicine or public health increasingly address self-responsibility' of patients and citizens. Furthermore, the responsible agency is descriptively or normatively utilised to describe the moral language of lay persons when addressing family responsibility in the case of disclosure of genetic information or genetic family planning. To systematise these different ways of how responsibility emerges, the paper provides a heuristic, conceptual matrix which allows to identify the underlying assumptions of moral agency, morally relevant social relationships and the temporal dimension of such agency. Exemplarily, the paper discusses how different dimensions of responsibility can normatively unfold for different types of genetic risk information despite everyday interpretations of a dominant type of responsibility.

Schiller, F. and G. Prpich (2014). "Learning to organise risk management in organisations: what future for enterprise risk management?" Journal of Risk Research 17(8): 999-1017.	Enterprise risk management (ERM) was originally developed to manage financial risks and was later transferred to other businesses, sectors and, crucially, government. ERM aims at a maximum of comprehensiveness suggesting the integration of all risks to an organisation's objective in a portfolio to inform organisational strategy. However, the concept suffers from unknown interdependencies between risks, implementation strategies that lack empirical validation and ambivalences and uncertainties arising from their management. It is only weakly rooted in organisational theory. Drawing on knowledge generation, theory key aspects for the empirical study of risk management in organisations are identified. These address the commensuration of risks, the comprehensiveness of the risk portfolio and the communication of explicit and tacit knowledge enabling organisational learning processes in different institutional contexts.

Schirillo, J. A. and E. R. Stone (2005). "The greater ability of graphical versus numerical displays to increase risk avoidance involves a common mechanism." Risk Analysis 25(3): 555-566.	By displaying a risk reduction of 50% graphically rather than numerically, Stone, Yates, and Parker significantly increased professed risk-avoidant behavior. The current experiments replicated this effect at various risk ratios. Specifically, participants were willing to spend more money to reduce a risk when the risk information was displayed by asterisks rather than by numbers for risk-reduction ratios ranging from 3% to 97%. Transforming the amount participants were willing to spend to logarithms significantly improved a linear fit to the data, suggesting that participants convert this variable within the decision-making process. Moreover, a log-linear model affords an exceptional fit to both the graphical and numerical data, suggesting that a graphical presentation elicits the same decision-making mechanism as does the numerical display. In addition, the data also suggest that each person removed from harm is weighted more by some additional factor in the graphical compared to the numerical presentations.

Schlag, A. K. (2010). "Aquaculture: an emerging issue for public concern." Journal of Risk Research 13(7): 829-844.	The present paper reviews the literature on the risks and benefits of aquaculture. By bringing together sources from both natural sciences and social sciences, we provide a synthesis of perspectives on the relatively novel activity of modern aquaculture. This review consists of three parts: first, a background to aquaculture; second, an overview of the scientific risks and benefits; and third, an introduction to the related public perception issues. We establish five main risk-related areas: human health, environment, organizational, fish welfare, and social issues and utilize these to highlight potential divergences in expert and lay perceptions. Drawing on findings from the risk perception literature, particularly those related to previous food-related controversies, it is argued that aquaculture incorporates a range of issues, which have already been shown to be a catalyst for public concern. As such, we conclude that, in addition to natural science studies, aquaculture requires a social science approach in order to be able to anticipate and address future controversies in a timely and efficient manner. However, to date, only few articles address aquaculture from a social science perspective, and the present paper is offered as a step in this direction.

Schlichting, I. (2013). "Strategic Framing of Climate Change by Industry Actors: A Meta-analysis." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(4): 493-511.	This study uses framing theory to analyze 38 studies on industry actors' climate change communication between 1990 and 2010. It identifies three consecutive phases, each characterized by one dominant master frame: in the early and mid-1990s the US fossil fuel and coal industry pushed the frame of scientific uncertainty. With the rundown to the Kyoto negotiations in 1997, the strategy shifted toward the socioeconomic consequences of mandatory emission reductions, particularly in the USA and Australia. At the same time, European industry actors started to promote industrial leadership in a climate protection, which today dominates across all the world regions. The study discusses potential triggers for the regional differences as well as the implications for further research.

Schmandt, J. (1998). "Civic science." Science Communication 20(1): 62-69.	Civic science is built an the premise that many development issues are so complex that they require careful interdisciplinary assessment of current conditions, future trends, and possible solutions, and that stakeholders an well placed to advise on actions which incorporate community preferences and goals. The author outlines how civic science principles work in three contexts: Project ARIDAS (a plan for sustainable development in the semiarid regions of Brazil), water and development planning in the Rio Grande/Rio Brave Basin in Texas and Mexico, and environmental risk assessment for the Houston (Texas) area.

Schmid-Petri, H. (2017). "Do Conservative Media Provide a Forum for Skeptical Voices? The Link Between Ideology and the Coverage of Climate Change in British, German, and Swiss Newspapers." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(4): 554-567.	This study analyzes whether the ideological orientation of a newspaper has an influence on the salience of skeptical arguments (trend, attribution, impact, and response skeptics) in the coverage of climate change in the UK, Germany, and Switzerland, and examines whether certain newspaper titles act as advocates of the skeptical countermovement. A quantitative content analysis of a broad newspaper sample for each country over the course of one year (June 2012-May 2013) was conducted. The results reveal that conservative newspapers do not amplify skeptical voices in general; the difference between conservative and more liberal outlets is only found in the case of impact and response skepticism. Second, in each country, certain conservative newspapers are particularly open to skeptical arguments.

Schmid-Petri, H., et al. (2017). "A changing climate of skepticism: The factors shaping climate change coverage in the US press." Public Understanding of Science 26(4): 498-513.	Skepticism toward climate change has a long tradition in the United States. We focus on mass media as the conveyors of the image of climate change and ask: Is climate change skepticism still a characteristic of US print media coverage? If so, to what degree and in what form? And which factors might pave the way for skeptics entering mass media debates? We conducted a quantitative content analysis of US print media during one year (1 June 2012 to 31 May 2013). Our results show that the debate has changed: fundamental forms of climate change skepticism (such as denial of anthropogenic causes) have been abandoned in the coverage, being replaced by more subtle forms (such as the goal to avoid binding regulations). We find no evidence for the norm of journalistic balance, nor do our data support the idea that it is the conservative press that boosts skepticism.

Schmidt, A., et al. (2017). "Quality in risk reporting on energy issues in German news media." Journal of Risk Research 20(10): 1227-1252.	In media coverage, the context of the German energy transition, also referred to as Energiewende, casts a spotlight not only on various technology options (e.g. wind or coal power) but also on more abstract topics such as security of supply or electricity prices. Thereby, the public's assessment of energy-related issues may greatly rely on perceived risks. Focusing on the quality of energy-related risk reporting, this contribution therefore is intended to explore the German print and TV media discourse on energy options or topics. In our sample, one in three articles connects an energy option or topic with an evident or potential unwanted event. Although the media's effect on actual risk perception involves some controversies, researchers tend to criticize the media as being susceptible to framing and for failing to place unwanted events in perspective, e.g. by not presenting the corresponding likelihood of occurrence, which is necessary to define risk. If this critique holds true, accurate public risk assessment is partly hampered because media coverage implies uncertainty rather than providing all information available. We examined seven indicators of quality reporting derived from literature research: intensity, likelihood, controllability, desired uncertainty, sensationalism, emotional language, and type of unwanted event. Based on German energy media coverage in 2013, we found a relatively high occurrence of intensity and controllability, whereas likelihood and desired uncertainty were reported less often. By aggregating the indicators into a risk-reporting quality index, we did not observe a poor quality of risk reporting on energy issues. In contrast to previous research, the overall quality of energy-related risk reporting can be assessed as at least moderate, implying that the media depicts risks more precisely than assumed. The occurrence of quality indicators thereby significantly depends on the type of unwanted event rather than on the energy option considered.

Schmidt, M., et al. (2015). "The Bio:Fiction film festival: Sensing how a debate about synthetic biology might evolve." Public Understanding of Science 24(5): 619-635.	Synthetic biology (SB) is a new techno-scientific field surrounded by an aura of hope, hype and fear. Currently it is difficult to predict which way the public debate - and thus the social shaping of technology - is heading. With limited hard evidence at hand, we resort to a strategy that takes into account speculative design and diegetic prototyping, accessing the Bio:Fiction science film festival, and its 52 short films from international independent filmmakers. Our first hypothesis was that these films could be used as an indicator of a public debate to come. The second hypothesis was that SB would most likely not follow the debate around genetic engineering (framing technology as conflict) as assumed by many observers. Instead, we found good evidence for two alternative comparators, namely nanotechnology (technology as progress) and information technology (technology as gadget) as stronger attractors for an upcoming public debate on SB.

Schmidt, M. R. and W. Wei (2006). "Loss of agro-biodiversity, uncertainty, and perceived control: A comparative risk perception study in Austria and China." Risk Analysis 26(2): 455-470.	The biogeographical centers of origin of important food crops-called Vavilov centers-are considered to be crucial sources of genetic diversity for present and future crop-breeding programs and thus for human food safety worldwide. Global environmental change and more intensified modes of crop production may cause genetic erosion (loss of traditional crop varieties and loss of crop wild relatives), especially in Vavilov centers. The present study focused on how the risk of genetic erosion (or loss of agro-biodiversity) is perceived in comparison to 16 other risk topics by experts and lay people in Austria and China. The most striking result was that genetic erosion was perceived to be an exceptionally unknown and uncertain risk topic, given that only genetically modified organisms (GMOs) were perceived as being even more uncertain. As a consequence of the high uncertainty, the idea of applying the precautionary principle to further prevent genetic erosion is discussed. An unprecedented finding-one that differs from Austrian participants-is that the Chinese have a higher perceived control over all risk topics. The increased perception of controllability in China is discussed in light of the theory of reflexive modernization. This theory strives to explain the increased critical attitude in Western countries such as Austria toward scientific innovations and toward the idea that everything can be calculated and mastered at will. By revealing different notions of risk perception, this research also provides additional scientific input to risk communication efforts for public education.

Schmierbach, M. (2005). "Method matters - The influence of methodology on journalists'assessments of social science research." Science Communication 26(3): 269-287.	Journalists make frequent use of social science research in news stories, and this information can help shape public opinion and policy. Despite this, few scholars have examined how this coverage is assembled. In particular researchers have rarely considered how the methodology of social science influences journalists' judgments. This article uses an experimental design embedded within an e-mail survey of working journalists to compare judgments of a qualitative and quantitative study Results show journalists consider the quantitative study more accurate and newsworthy. The article considers how focusing on N and other basic aspects of methodology might influence coverage patterns and distort representations of social science research.

Schmitt, C. R. (2014). "Pioneers of ecological restoration: the people and legacy of the University of Wisconsin Arboretum." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(3): 409-411.
	
Schmitt, C. R. (2016). "Mounting Tensions: Materializing Strategies and Tactics on National Park "Social Trails"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(4): 418-431.	This essay builds from Samantha Senda-Cook's 2013 article, "Materializing Tensions," to explore the material rhetorics of the so-called " social trails" of the Apostle Islands National Lakeshore. These improvised, foot-worn pathways, diverging from and running alongside official Park Service trails, materialize a tension between what Michel de Certeau termed "strategies" and "tactics," revealing how both are always at play in park and preserve trailspace and how the movements of the individual trail walker actualize and perpetuate a common concept of place. The study demonstrates and advocates close rhetorical attention to material aspects of the biophysical environment and the way that physical traces of many individuals over time can influence the subsequent actions and interpretations of others. The final discussion argues that as further tensions in trailspace rhetorics are identified rhetorical analysis must not fail to account for them.

Schmuck, D., et al. (2018). "The Effects of Environmental Brand Attributes and Nature Imagery in Green Advertising." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(3): 414-429.	Following Hartmann and Apaolaza-Ibanez' [(2009). Green advertising revisited. Conditioning virtual nature experiences. International Journal of Advertising, 28(4), 715-739] approach, this experimental study compares the effects of three types of green print ads: a non-green ad, a functional green ad promoting environmental product attributes, and a combined nature ad featuring a pleasant nature image in addition to functional attributes. We extend prior research by simultaneously testing moderating and mediating mechanisms to explain brand attitudes and purchase intention. Using a quota sample of 456 consumers, findings suggest that the functional ad enhances perceptions of environmental brand benefits, which positively affect purchase intention partially mediated by brand attitudes. The combined nature ad, by contrast, activates an additional emotional process of virtually experiencing nature which positively influences brand attitudes and purchase intention beyond perceptions of environmental brand benefits. The effects of the combined nature ad are even stronger for highly involved consumers.

Schnabel, U. (2003). "God's formula and Devil's contribution: science in the press." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 255-259.	Scientists often complain, that journalists do not describe the "real" scientific work, but rather present an exaggerated-often alarmistic-negative image of science. But the contrary is also true: There is a tendency in the press to report about science in a very positive, even ecstatic way. In fact, there are two types of exaggeration: Scientists are either described as heroic figures, that bring "God's formula" down to earth. Or they are portrayed as some form of fallen angel, whose science has turned into something evil and frightening-which is the devil's contribution to the story of scientific glory. But this is not a unique feature of science-journalism; popular articles often carry an emotional message to attract attention. While politicians know (and use) this knowledge for a long time, it seems especially hard for scientists to accept it. But in order to make Public Understanding of Science successful, scientists should try to understand the laws and mechanisms of journalism. Recommendations as the Guidelines of the Royal Society can be helpful.

Schneider, J. (2010). "Making Space for the "Nuances of Truth": Communication and Uncertainty at an Environmental Journalists' Workshop." Science Communication 32(2): 171-201.	In 2008, the Society of Environmental Journalists listed nearly 50 science or science immersion workshops for environmental journalists. Yet relatively little is known about the content of these workshops and their impact on participants. This ethnographic study, conducted at a science immersion workshop for environmental journalists, aims to fill this void in our knowledge. Relying on participant observation and depth interviews, the study suggests that such workshops are useful for participating journalists: Reporters feel they leave the workshop better understanding the scientific method and scientific uncertainty. But the findings also reveal that "metacommunication"-communication about communication is equally as important as science immersion activities. Workshop scientists should be involved in metacomnnunication activities not just as scientific experts advising journalists on science but as fellow professionals seeking to improve communication between the two groups.

Schneider, J. and G. Miller (2011). "The Impact of "No Impact Man": Alternative Hedonism as Environmental Appeal." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(4): 467-484.	As "No Impact Man,'' writer Colin Beavan conducted a one-year experiment to determine whether he and his family could reduce their environmental impact to zero while living and working in Manhattan. This article examines the No Impact Man (NIM) experiment both as "alternative hedonism,'' a reconceptualization of the "good life'' that avoids unduly damaging the natural world, and also as a kind of "eco-stunt,'' an attempt to garner significant media coverage about positive environmental behaviors. We use DeLuca's theorization of the "image event'' to analyze the No Impact Man franchise-blog, book, and documentary film-though we modify that theory in order to explore how No Impact Man functions as multi-media and new-media spectacle. In particular, we explore the risky double-bind Beavan finds himself in when, through his choice to publicize the NIM eco-stunt, he is critiqued for opportunism, foolishness, and insincerity. We suggest that efforts to publicize eco-stunts, however well conceived, invariably invite backlash. As a result, we find that alternative hedonism theory and practice open a space of invitation to environmentally beneficial behaviors and attitudes that could have potential with some audiences, but their mass appeal is compromised by the limitations of the stunts that publicize them.

Schortman, A. (2010). ""The Children Cry for Burger King": Modernity, Development, and Fast Food Consumption in Northern Honduras." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(3): 318-337.	While food prices are on the rise in Honduras (and throughout much of the world), many northern Hondurans report consuming fast food at international chain restaurants in San Pedro Sula (SPS). What follows is an analysis of fast food consumption amongst relatively impoverished residents of peri-urban towns on the outskirts of SPS. This paper-based on ethnographic investigation and analysis of newspaper advertisements-explores how foreign-based fast food establishments are perceived, used, and discussed, and the ways in which they are accepted and contested. The author argues that fast food consumption represents an important social activity and a topic around which debates about the meanings of modernity and development have arisen. While fast food consumption has been accepted as a sign of modernity and progress by some, others disparage such consumption, which they see as a dangerous turn away from more traditional Honduran values and foods. Because fast food consumption also has far-reaching political-economic effects and implications, the essay concludes with a brief discussion of such larger issues. In particular, the author highlights the global, national, and regional political-economic forces that foster unequal competition in a "free trade" context. The essay draws attention to the actors and forces which make international fast food chains in northern Honduras the only restaurants in their price range capable of offering clean, high-quality dining atmospheres complete with children's entertainment.

Schroth, O., et al. (2014). "Visual Climate Change Communication: From Iconography to Locally Framed 3D Visualization." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(4): 413-432.	Climate change is an urgent problem with implications registered not only globally, but also on national and local scales. It is a particularly challenging case of environmental communication because its main cause, greenhouse gas emissions, is invisible. The predominant approach of making climate change visible is the use of iconic, often affective, imagery. Literature on the iconography of climate change shows that global iconic motifs, such as polar bears, have contributed to a public perception of the problem as spatially and temporally remote. This paper proposes an alternative approach to global climate change icons by focusing on recognizable representations of local impacts within an interactive game environment. This approach was implemented and tested in a research project based on the municipality of Delta, British Columbia. A major outcome of the research is Future Delta, an interactive educational game featuring 3D visualizations and simulation tools for climate change adaptation and mitigation future scenarios. The empirical evaluation is based on quantitative pre/post-game play questionnaires with 18 students and 10 qualitative expert interviews. The findings support the assumption that interactive 3D imagery is effective in communicating climate change. The quantitative post-questionnaires particularly highlight a shift in support of more local responsibility.

Schuldt, J. P. and S. Roh (2014). "Media Frames and Cognitive Accessibility: What Do "Global Warming" and "Climate Change" Evoke in Partisan Minds?" Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(4): 529-548.	Decades of research demonstrate that how the public thinks about a given issue is affected by how it is framed by the media. Typically, studies of framing vary how an issue is portrayed (often, by altering the text of written communication) and compare subsequent beliefs, attitudes, or preferences-taking a framing effect as evidence that a media frame (or frame in communication) instantiated a particular audience frame (or frame in thought). Less work, however, has attempted to measure frames in thought directly, which may illuminate cognitive mechanisms that underlie framing effects. In this vein, we describe a Web experiment (n = 400) in which US political partisans reported the extent to which a "global warming" or "climate change" frame brought to mind various climate-related concepts. Although the media frequently employ them interchangeably, these frames evoked distinct patterns of cognitive accessibility across partisans: Whereas conservatives associated heat-related impacts (rising temperatures, melting ice) more strongly with "global warming" than with "climate change," liberals associated these impacts equally with both phrases. Discussion focuses on implications for media framing of climate issues and framing theory more broadly.

Schultz, T., et al. (2018). "Images That Engage People With Sustainable Urban Water Management." Science Communication 40(2): 199-227.	This study explored responses to categories of images relevant to an environmental management issuestormwater managementacross three dimensions that influence engagement: emotional response, personal relevance, and topic congruence. Although images of oceans elicited positive emotions, most participants did not perceive such images as relevant to the topic. Images of traditional stormwater infrastructure evoked negative emotions and were perceived as topic congruent but not personally relevant. Images of flooding were ranked highly across all three dimensions. These findings have implications for the development of communication materials that appeal to the broader public.

Schumann, R. L., et al. (2018). "Tornado Warning Perception and Response: Integrating the Roles of Visual Design, Demographics, and Hazard Experience." Risk Analysis 38(2): 311-332.	Recent advancements in severe weather detection and warning dissemination technologies have reduced, but not eliminated, large-casualty tornado hazards in the United States. Research on warning cognition and behavioral response by the public has the potential to further reduce tornado-related deaths and injuries; however, less research has been conducted in this area compared to tornado research in the physical sciences. Extant research in this vein tends to bifurcate. One branch of studies derives from classic risk perception, which investigates cognitive, affective, and sociocultural factors in relation to concern and preparation for uncertain risks. Another branch focuses on psychological, social, and cultural factors implicated in warning response for rapid onset hazards, with attention paid to previous experience and message design. Few studies link risk perceptions with cognition and response as elicited by specific examples of warnings. The present study unites risk perception, cognition, and response approaches by testing the contributions of hypothesized warning response drivers in one set of path models. Warning response is approximated by perceived fear and intended protective action as reported by survey respondents when exposed to hypothetical tornado warning scenarios. This study considers the roles of hazard knowledge acquisition, information-seeking behaviors, previous experience, and sociodemographic factors while controlling for the effects of the visual warning graphic. Findings from the study indicate the primacy of a user's visual interpretation of a warning graphic in shaping tornado warning response. Results also suggest that information-seeking habits, previous tornado experience, and local disaster culture play strong influencing roles in warning response.

Schummer, J. (2005). "Reading nano: the public interest in nanotechnology as reflected in purchase patterns of books." Public Understanding of Science 14(2): 163-183.	Owing to a rapidly growing public interest in nanotechnology, people are increasingly buying various books to inform themselves about nanotechnology. This paper tries to measure the public interest in nanotechnology and its relation to the public interest in other fields of knowledge by applying a new method. I combine formal network analysis of co-purchase book data with traditional content analysis. The method is successful in identifying the books that the public reads to be informed about nanotechnology, and in distinguishing between different kinds and classes of books and thereby between different interest foci and readerships and their relations. The results suggest that nanotechnology is for many their first intense contact with science and technology and that they read a great variety of different kinds of books. Rather than choose general introductions to current research written by scientists or science journalists, readers focus on forecasting and visionary literature including business guides, written by software entrepreneurs and business consultants. Unlike expert readers, who connect nanotechnology to other fields of science and engineering, the broader public connects it to visions about dissolving the human/machine distinction. Although the distinction between non-fiction and science fiction is still important for readers, border-crossing authors increasingly blur it.

Schuppli, C. A., et al. (2015). "Understanding attitudes towards the use of animals in research using an online public engagement tool." Public Understanding of Science 24(3): 358-374.	Using an online public engagement experiment, we probed the views of 617 participants on the use of pigs as research animals (to reduce agricultural pollution or to improve organ transplant success in humans) with and without genetic modification and using different numbers of pigs. In both scenarios and across demographics, level of opposition increased when the research required the use of GM corn or GM pigs. Animal numbers had little effect. A total of 1037 comments were analyzed to understand decisions. Participants were most concerned about the impact of the research on animal welfare. Genetic modification was viewed as an intervention in nature and there was worry about unpredictable consequences. Both opponents and supporters sought assurances that concerns were addressed. Governing bodies for animal research should make efforts to document and mitigate consequences of GM and other procedures, and increase efforts to maintain a dialogue with the public around acceptability of these procedures.

Schuppli, C. A. and D. M. Weary (2010). "Attitudes towards the use of genetically modified animals in research." Public Understanding of Science 19(6): 686-697.	Here we provide the first experimental evidence that public concerns about the use of animals in research are accentuated when genetically modified (GM) animals are used. Using an online survey, we probed participant views on two uses of pigs as research animals (to reduce agricultural pollution or to improve organ transplant success in humans) with and without GM. We surveyed 327 animal technicians, researchers, advocates, university students and others. In both scenarios and across demographics, support dropped off when the research required the use of GM pigs or GM corn. For example, 66% of participants supported using pigs to reduce phosphorus pollution, but this declined to 49% when the pigs were fed GM corn and to 20% when the research required the creation of a new GM line of pigs. Those involved in animal research were more consistently supportive compared to those who were not or those who were vegetarians.

Schutten, J. K. (2008). "Chewing on the Grizzly Man: Getting to the Meat of the Matter." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(2): 193-211.	At the Sundance Film Festival in 2005 director Werner Herzog released Grizzly Man. The film explores over 100 hours of video footage left by self-described eco-warrior Timothy Treadwell. Treadwell spent 13 summers living with grizzly bears at the Katmai National Park and Preserve on the Alaska Peninsula in an effort to protect the bears living there from human harm. I argue that the dissonance felt by viewers of the film surrounds a disconfirmation of human faith in the nature/culture binary. Treadwell's death is troubling because the predator/prey relationship makes humans "pieces of meat'' and as such objects rather than subjects. This interruption forcibly moves humans to the nature side of the dualism, thereby questioning the superiority of the culture side of the binary. The potential for deconstructing the nature/culture binary through Treadwell's story, as well as the judgments against Treadwell that resist such deconstruction, has significant implications for the environmental movement insofar as the nature/culture binary is central to Western environmental ideologies and exploitations.

Schutten, J. K. (2015). "Perspectives on human-animal communication: internatural communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(1): 137-139.
	
Schutten, J. K. and R. A. Rogers (2011). "Magick as an Alternative Symbolic: Enacting Transhuman Dialogs." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(3): 261-280.	This essay examines Neo-Pagan practices of magick and, via Rogers's criteria for a transhuman theory of communication, argues that these practices enact a transhuman dialog that has potential to enhance environmentally sustainable ways of living. Magick helps to re-member immanence in all entities through learning to exercise modes of sensation that have become dormant. Of central importance to the practice of magick is taking eros seriously while expanding awareness beyond the human to the other-than-human. Such sensory experiences and relationships serve to recover the concrete from the dominance of the abstract, eros from the dominance of rationality, the material from the dominance of the ideational, and the natural from the dominance of culture. This essay works to bridge theoretical and practical implications of dialogs with nature by identifying practices that can overcome trained incapacities that block sensual, dialogic relations with the other-than-human world, while also acknowledging limitations in the transformative potential of Neo-Pagan ideologies and practices.

Schutz, H. and P. M. Wiedemann (2008). "Framing effects on risk perception of nanotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 17(3): 369-379.	How do people judge nanotechnology risks that are completely unfamiliar to them? Drawing on results of previous studies on framing and risk perception, two hypotheses about potential influences on nanotechnology risk perception were examined in an experimental study: 1) Risk perception of nanotechnology is influenced by its benefit perception. 2) Risk perception of nanotechnology is influenced by the context in which nanotechnology is embedded, specifically by the characteristics of the enterprises that profit from nanotechnology: large multinational enterprises versus small and medium-sized enterprises. In contrast to findings for other new technologies, e. g. biotechnology, the different types of benefit did not affect risk perceptions in our study. However, we found that characterizing the enterprises as large multinational versus small or medium-sized leads to differences in risk perception. One can speculate that when personal knowledge about a technology is lacking, people use more familiar aspects from the social context as cues for their risk evaluation.

Schwarz, E. A. G. (2013). "Visualizing the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Debate." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(2): 169-190.	Environmental organizations often use visual material to inform society about environmental concerns and their associated policy issues. This case study examines the process by which the International League of Conservation Photographers (iLCP) and the Chesapeake Bay Foundation (CBF) use a Rapid Assessment Visual Expedition (RAVE) to draw attention to the environmental issues surrounding the Chesapeake Bay watershed. In addition, the study analyzes the resulting photographs captured during the event. The CBF and the iLCP strategically use the RAVE to create scientific and local knowledge that they use to present their understanding of the Chesapeake Bay. An analysis of the slideshows generated from the RAVE shows how the strategies the photographers employ help to depict power relations among the stakeholders in the watershed area. The strategies may encourage audiences to develop a regional collective identity of concerned citizens who will work together to help to protect and clean the watershed.

Schwarz-Plaschg, C. (2018). "Nanotechnology is like ... The rhetorical roles of analogies in public engagement." Public Understanding of Science 27(2): 153-167.	Lay people are increasingly invited to deliberate on emerging technologies in public engagement settings. Analogies appear frequently in these contexts and are commonly understood as means of making sense of and forming an opinion on emerging technologies. This article provides an alternative perspective, which conceptualizes analogies as rhetorical devices employed to achieve specific functions. A repertoire of rhetorical roles is traced in four public engagement settings on nanotechnology: (1) analogies suggesting acceptance/rejection of specific nano-applications, (2) anticipatory and alerting analogies constructed to plausibilize and prevent futures, (3) killer analogies closing debate and arguments, and (4) nano is not like nano moves that distinguish between application domains. Each role points to specific dimensions and tensions of public engagement processes. Overall, the findings reveal that lay people use analogies to make arguments and enforce framings rather than to just make sense of nanotechnology, which refutes the assumption of a public opinion deficit.

Schwarze, S. (2007). "Environmental Communication as a Discipline of Crisis." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(1): 87-98.	This essay interprets Cox's keynote as a call for environmental communication to reorient itself as a form of ideological criticism and identifies the potential pitfalls of heeding that call. First, the author revisits key arguments surrounding the practice of ideological criticism in Communication Studies and articulates their relevance to discussions about the mission and purpose of environmental communication. Second, he suggests that an uncritical embrace of the rationale for a "crisis discipline'' may perpetuate problematic assumptions about communication, both as a social practice and as a scholarly discipline. Third, he argues that such problems may be sidestepped by making environmental crisis itself a central concept and object of environmental communication inquiry, such that environmental communication does not merely respond to crisis but becomes a discipline of and about crisis. A focus on the dynamics of crisis, the author concludes, entails a persistent concern with judgment in its political, scholarly, and pedagogical contexts.

Schweizer, S., et al. (2013). "Changing the Conversation about Climate Change: A Theoretical Framework for Place-Based Climate Change Engagement." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(1): 42-62.	In this paper we present and test a theoretical framework for place-based climate change engagement. The framework is based on principles from place attachment theory, place-based education, free-choice learning, and norm activation theory. The framework, which we empirically validate here, demonstrates the power of engaging citizens in action-based learning at physical, material places, which are also symbolic sites for inspiring political action and learning about climate change impacts. Research has shown that climate change will resonate with diverse audiences when: (1) it is situated in cultural values and beliefs, (2) it is meaningful to that audience, and (3) it empowers specific action. We use data collected at 16 national parks and wildlife refuges in the USA; all of which are experiencing the impacts of climate change and struggling to develop climate change communication and outreach activities for their visitors and local communities. Thus, this framework and the empirical validation presented are the result of triangulating quantitative survey data (n = 4,181) and qualitative interviews (n = 359) to argue for the unparalleled potential for America's parks and refuges to inspire civic engagement in climate change through place-based communication.

Schweizer, S., et al. (2009). "Strategies for Communicating About Climate Change Impacts on Public Lands." Science Communication 31(2): 266-274.	Natural resource agencies in the United States have a huge responsibility to protect and manage public lands as well as effectively communicate with diverse publics about land management issues. One of these issues is how best to deal with the impacts of climate change on our nation's treasured landscapes. Fortunately, a recent surge of research and theorizing in the social sciences on communication about climate change can inform natural resource communication efforts. What insights can scholars share with communication practitioners and public land managers? What communication principles will help them create effective strategies for communicating about climate change? How can scholars best communicate the complexity of climate change impacts and nuances of changes at landscape scales? To begin to address these questions, Colorado State University researchers, in partnership with the Office of the Governor of the State of Colorado, hosted a 3-day workshop on the challenges and opportunities associated with communicating about climate change on public lands in the western United States. This commentary summarizes ideas generated from workshop discussions, including 9 key messages and 10 key principles for effective climate change communication in a land management context.

Sci, W. C. (1999). "Excerpts from the declaration on science and the use of scientific knowledge." Science Communication 21(2): 183-186.
	
Sci, W. C. (1999). "Excerpt from the science agenda-framework for action." Science Communication 21(2): 187-191.
	
Scott, A. and R. Du Plessis (2008). "Eliciting situated knowledges about new technologies." Public Understanding of Science 17(1): 105-119.	This paper explores the use of "situated knowledges" as a means of grounding debates about "scientific citizenship" within practical research interventions. We describe the development of a focus group methodology that uses opportunities for storytelling to elicit the situated knowledges of research participants regarding human genetic testing. The application of this methodology is illustrated by attention to the potential construction of what Irwin and Michael have referred to as "ethno-epistemic assemblages." Methodological discussion is preceded by a critical review of recent public participation and "dialogue" initiatives that aim to develop scientific citizenship and more accountable technology decision-making.

Seegert, N. (2014). "Queer Beasts: Ursine Punctures in Domesticity." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(1): 75-91.	In 2006, Bruno the bear wandered onto German soil-the first brown bear in 170 years-where he was shot, killed, taxidermied, and put on display (his presence recently resurfaced due to the 2010 Wikileaks). Bruno served as a queer beast in the anthropogenic landscape where he challenged boundaries of what is permissible, and normal. By refusing to honor borders and cultural norms, he disrupted our human sense of control of the landscape. In response to Bruno's unruly presence, humans in turn appropriated him, fixed him as a cipher to fill with their own constructs of wildness and animality, and then deployed those cultural articulations. Performing a critical visual analysis, this paper explores how the anxiety Bruno evoked fixed his queer, hirsute frame as a taxidermied cipher representing discipline, fetishization, and a critique of power. Bruno became an imaginary wild whose presence rhetorically queered the geographical and political landscape.

Seely, R. (2006). "Stargazer: The life and times of the telescope." Science Communication 27(3): 447-448.
	
Seethaler, S. L. (2016). "Shades of Grey in Vaccination Decision Making: Tradeoffs, Heuristics, and Implications." Science Communication 38(2): 261-271.	Many studies have investigated how individual factors, message factors, and combinations of individual and message factors influence choice of information processing strategy. This commentary probes a complex contemporary personal and policy issue to illustrate the drawbacks of relying on subjects' self-reports of reasoning strategy, or the conclusions of subjects' decision-making processes, to distinguish between heuristic and systematic information processing. Moreover, it argues that to reach their audiences effectively, science communicators need both a sophisticated understanding of the tradeoffs in the science and health issues they cover, and a knowledge of the commonly used heuristics that influence individuals' costs-benefits analyses.

Segerstrale, U. (2016). "Publishing and the Advancement of Science." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 1020-1020.
	
Segev, E. and A. Baram-Tsabari (2012). "Seeking science information online: Data mining Google to better understand the roles of the media and the education system." Public Understanding of Science 21(7): 813-829.	Which extrinsic cues motivate people to search for science-related information? For many science-related search queries, media attention and time during the academic year are highly correlated with changes in information seeking behavior (expressed by changes in the proportion of Google science-related searches). The data mining analysis presented here shows that changes in the volume of searches for general and well-established science terms are strongly linked to the education system. By contrast, ad-hoc events and current concerns were better aligned with media coverage. The interest and ability to independently seek science knowledge in response to current events or concerns is one of the fundamental goals of the science literacy movement. This method provides a mirror of extrapolated behavior and as such can assist researchers in assessing the role of the media in shaping science interests, and inform the ways in which lifelong interests in science are manifested in real world situations.

Segev, E. and A. J. Sharon (2017). "Temporal patterns of scientific information-seeking on Google and Wikipedia." Public Understanding of Science 26(8): 969-985.	In response to the news coverage of scientific events and to science education, people increasingly go online to get more information. This study investigates how patterns of science and technology information-seeking on Google and Wikipedia change over time, in ways that differ between ad hoc terms that correspond to news coverage and cyclic terms that correspond to the academic period. Findings show that the science and technology activity in Google and Wikipedia was significantly associated with ad hoc and cyclic patterns. While the peak activity in Google and Wikipedia largely overlapped for ad hoc terms, it mismatched for cyclic terms. The findings indicate the importance of external cues such as news media and education, and also of the online engagement process, and particularly the crucial but different role played by Google and Wikipedia in gaining science and technology knowledge. Educators and policy makers could benefit from taking into account those different patterns.

Seifert, F. (2006). "Local steps in an international career: a Danish-style consensus conference in Austria." Public Understanding of Science 15(1): 73-88.	The article gives an account of the first Austrian nationwide Danish-style consensus conference, held in the summer of 2003, treating policy issues related to genetic data. Consensus conferences are currently widely discussed for their promise to democratize fields of technological decision-making which are both crucial to the fate of modern society and inaccessible to public involvement. Instead of evaluating the "democratic efficiency" of the deliberative exercise, the essay will contextualize the event in local, as well as international developments comprising discursive, institutional and political elements. Rather than offering definitive claims about the normative significance of the rapidly diffusing deliberative technique, the discussion of a local experience with it will arrive at ambivalent conclusions.

Seifert, F. and H. Torgersen (1997). "How to keep out what we don't want: an assessment of 'Sozialvertraglichkeit' under the Austrian Genetic Engineering Act." Public Understanding of Science 6(4): 301-327.	National regulations for new science and engineering projects are often drawn up on foundations that refer to the current 'state of the art'. However, this approach suffers from the fundamental problem, among others, that science progresses quickly, and models for the development of science have only limited predictive ability. Assessing the risk associated with a project therefore becomes a complex problem; and so non-scientific criteria can not be excluded from the decision-making process. An example of such non-technical criteria can be found in Austrian regulations on genetic engineering where: 'products containing or consisting of genetically engineered organisms must not create any ''Soziale Unvertraglichkeit'' [social unsustainability], no 'unbalanced burden on society or social groups' that is unacceptable for economic, social or moral reasons.' The aim of this paper is to investigate the implications of this provision. The paper begins with a discussion of the fundamental issues of regulating genetic engineering at a national level, then examines the evolution of the Austrian Genetic Engineering Act, and critically assesses the term 'Sozialvertraglichkeit'. Having examined various mechanisms whereby non-scientific criteria can be included in the decision-making process, the paper argues that Sozialvertraglichkeit can be interpreted as a constructive answer to the problems of a risk society.

Sekizawa, J. (2013). "Other Aspects of BSE Issues in East Asian Countries." Risk Analysis 33(11): 1952-1957.	Scientific risk estimates of BSE can be the same internationally; however, socioeconomic backgrounds, such as food supply (e.g., beef import status) and dietary life, are different between East Asian countries (i.e., in this article, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan) and Western countries, which may account for differences in risk perception of people. Since political and social backgrounds also differ among these East Asian countries, they will also influence people's attitudes toward food safety. Psychological factors such as dread and the unknown are considered to be important in risk perception, but socioeconomic, and in some cases political, situations (e.g., attitudes of politicians and political pressures in trade) may strongly influence the perception and acceptance of various risks by citizens. With regard to the BSE issues, latter aspects may contribute a lot to risk perception, but have not been examined in depth until now. Although protection of health is the key element to food safety, sometimes business factors can overwhelm safety issues in international trade. Appropriate risk governance in food safety issues, such as BSE, can be attained not only through application of outputs of scientific assessment, but also through deliberation of various aspects, that may have strong influence on people's risk perception, and improved communication among stakeholders and also among countries.

Sekizawa, J., et al. (2007). "Evaluation of human health risks from exposures to four air pollutants in the indoor and the outdoor environments in Tokushima, and communication of the outcomes to the local people." Journal of Risk Research 10(6): 841-851.	The Law concerning Reporting etc., of Releases to the Environment of Specific Chemical Substances, and Promoting Improvement in Their Management (the so-called Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law or the PRTR Law) was promulgated in Japan in 1999. Estimated amounts of the specific chemical substances released from their major emission sources to local environments are publicly available by law. Concentrations of benzene, toluene, xylene (i. e., volatile organic compounds or VOCs) and formaldehyde specified by law were measured in different seasons from 2003 to 2005 both at outdoor and indoor sites within the Tokushima University campus and in a nearby local area to estimate their human exposures. There were no substantial differences between the indoor and the outdoor concentrations of benzene, toluene, and xylene. Higher concentrations observed for formaldehyde in the indoor environment than in the outdoor environment in the 2003 winter season could be explained by the fact that there was renovation of the building nine months before the measurement. The exposure data obtained were used to evaluate the possible human health risks of these four chemicals by referring to their health criteria. The results indicated that the overall risks from the exposures to these chemicals both in the indoor and the outdoor environments were not significantly high even if fluctuations are taken into account. The results of our evaluation were released on the university website and also presented and discussed at a public meeting and three PRTR data seminars in the local society.

Selin, C., et al. (2017). "Experiments in engagement: Designing public engagement with science and technology for capacity building." Public Understanding of Science 26(6): 634-649.	Public engagement with science and technology is now widely used in science policy and communication. Touted as a means of enhancing democratic discussion of science and technology, analysis of public engagement with science and technology has shown that it is often weakly tied to scientific governance. In this article, we suggest that the notion of capacity building might be a way of reframing the democratic potential of public engagement with science and technology activities. Drawing on literatures from public policy and administration, we outline how public engagement with science and technology might build citizen capacity, before using the notion of capacity building to develop five principles for the design of public engagement with science and technology. We demonstrate the use of these principles through a discussion of the development and realization of the pilot for a large-scale public engagement with science and technology activity, the Futurescape City Tours, which was carried out in Arizona in 2012.

Sell, S. K. (1995). "The Origins of a Trade-Based Approach to Intellectual Property Protection - the Role of Industry Associations." Science Communication 17(2): 163-185.	How did the previously arcane, technical issue of intellectual property protection become elevated to the top tier of the U.S. trade agenda? A powerful coalition of private-sector industry associations, whose intellectual property constitutes increasingly valuable exports of goods and services, successfully lobbied for new domestic laws and bilateral and multilateral negotiations linking intellectual property protection to international trade. They framed the problem in a way that captured the imagination of U.S. policymakers and marketed a trade-based approach as a solution to government concerns over the trade deficit and international competitiveness.

Sell, T. K., et al. (2018). "Frequency of Risk-Related News Media Messages in 2016 Coverage of Zika Virus." Risk Analysis 38(12): 2514-2524.	News media plays a large role in the information the public receives during an infectious disease outbreak, and may influence public knowledge and perceptions of risk. This study analyzed and described the content of U.S. news media coverage of Zika virus and Zika response during 2016. A random selection of 800 Zika-related news stories from 25 print and television news sources was analyzed. The study examined 24 different messages that appeared in news media articles and characterized them using theories of risk perception as messages with characteristics that could increase perception of risk (risk-elevating messages; n = 14), messages that could decrease perception of risk (risk-minimizing messages; n = 8), or messages about travel or testing guidance (n = 2). Overall, 96% of news stories in the study sample contained at least one or more risk-elevating message(s) and 61% contained risk-minimizing message(s). The frequency of many messages changed after local transmission was confirmed in Florida, and differed between sources in locations with or without local transmission in 2016. Forty percent of news stories included messages about negative potential outcomes of Zika virus infection without mentioning ways to reduce risk. Findings from this study may help inform current federal, state, and local Zika responses by offering a detailed analysis of how news media are covering the outbreak and response activities as well as identifying specific messages appearing more or less frequently than intended. Findings identifying the types of messages that require greater emphasis may also assist public health communicators in responding more effectively to future outbreaks.

Senda-Cook, S. (2013). "Materializing Tensions: How Maps and Trails Mediate Nature." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(3): 355-371.	Before visitors to national parks take their first steps of a hike, maps shape their perceptions of nature. Additionally, on the trail, the landscapes organize visitors' experiences by concealing and revealing the trail itself. Focusing on one Zion National Park hiking trail, Hidden Canyon, as a rhetorical artifact, I argue that maps and trails materialize tensions of access-preservation and safety-risk, functioning as mediators between recreators and nature. My analysis employs the concept of landscape to connect maps and trails with our understanding of nature, foregrounding the consequences of material rhetoric in environmental communication.

Senecah, S. L. (2007). "Impetus, Mission, and Future of the Environmental Communication Commission/Division: Are We Still on Track? Were We Ever?" Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(1): 21-33.	Robert Cox's essay "Nature's 'Crisis Disciplines': Does Environmental Communication Have an Ethical Duty?'' invites and challenges the environmental communication community to reflect on the mission of the field of environmental communication (EC) and urges an assessment of past, present, and future assumptions and duties. In response to this, and in the interest of provoking more deliberation on the future of EC, this essay recounts the momentum and some of the benchmarks that led to the 1996 establishment of the Environmental Communication Commission/Division, generally considered the flagship of the environmental communication community, within the Speech Communication Association (now the National Communication Association). It challenges Cox's depiction of EC as a crisis discipline, and his assertion that ECers commit to an ethical duty to speak publicly when our scholarship points to distortions, inaccuracies and communication process dysfunctions, what he calls "danger.'' The essay ends with a challenge to the EC community to inventory its strengths and reach outward to other disciplines and organizations.

Setala, V. and E. Valiverronen (2011). "Public perception of evolution and the rise of evolutionary psychology in Finland." Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 558-573.	In this paper we analyse the media debate in Finland that began after the publication in Science of a survey on the public acceptance of evolution. According to the results Finland ranked 17th among 34 countries. This was unexpected in a secular high tech nation with a consistent top performance in international comparative surveys on public education. We trace the main arguments in this debate in relation to previous studies on the public understanding of science and argue that newspaper claims of declining acceptance of evolutionism in Finland were based on rather ambivalent data. Furthermore, in the debate, evolutionary theory became a metonymy for science in society. The results published in Science provided a platform for a critique of religion and alternative movements, something quite uncommon in Finnish media. Finally, the debate was taken as an opportunity to promote evolutionary psychology as a legitimate social science.

Severtson, D. J. (2015). "Testing Map Features Designed to Convey the Uncertainty of Cancer Risk: Insights Gained From Assessing Judgments of Information Adequacy and Communication Goals." Science Communication 37(1): 59-88.	Barriers to communicating the uncertainty of environmental health risks include preferences for certain information and low numeracy. Map features designed to communicate the magnitude and uncertainty of estimated cancer risk from air pollution were tested among 826 participants to assess how map features influenced judgments of adequacy and the intended communication goals. An uncertain versus certain visual feature was judged as less adequate but met both communication goals and addressed numeracy barriers. Expressing relative risk using words communicated uncertainty and addressed numeracy barriers but was judged as highly inadequate. Risk communication and visual cognition concepts were applied to explain findings.

Severtson, D. J., et al. (2006). "Applying a health behavior theory to explore the influence of information and experience on arsenic risk representations, policy beliefs, and protective behavior." Risk Analysis 26(2): 353-368.	The common sense model (CSM) shows how people process information to construct representations, or mental models, that guide responses to health threats. We applied the CSM to understand how people responded to information about arsenic-contaminated well water. Constructs included external information (arsenic level and information use), experience (perceived water quality and arsenic-related health effects), representations, safety judgments, opinions about policies to mitigate environmental arsenic, and protective behavior. Of 649 surveys mailed to private well users with arsenic levels exceeding the maximum contaminant level, 545 (84%) were analyzed. Structural equation modeling quantified CSM relationships. Both external information and experience had substantial effects on behavior. Participants who identified a water problem were more likely to reduce exposure to arsenic. However, about 60% perceived good water quality and 60% safe water. Participants with higher arsenic levels selected higher personal safety thresholds and 20% reported a lower arsenic level than indicated by their well test. These beliefs would support judgments of safe water. A variety of psychological and contextual factors may explain judgments of safe water when information suggested otherwise. Information use had an indirect effect on policy beliefs through understanding environmental causes of arsenic. People need concrete information about environmental risk at both personal and environmental-systems levels to promote a comprehensive understanding and response. The CSM explained responses to arsenic information and may have application to other environmental risks.

Severtson, D. J. and J. E. Burt (2012). "The Influence of Mapped Hazards on Risk Beliefs: A Proximity-Based Modeling Approach." Risk Analysis 32(2): 259-280.	Interview findings suggest perceived proximity to mapped hazards influences risk beliefs when people view environmental hazard maps. For dot maps, four attributes of mapped hazards influenced beliefs: hazard value, proximity, prevalence, and dot patterns. In order to quantify the collective influence of these attributes for viewers perceived or actual map locations, we present a model to estimate proximity-based hazard or risk (PBH) and share study results that indicate how modeled PBH and map attributes influenced risk beliefs. The randomized survey study among 447 university students assessed risk beliefs for 24 dot maps that systematically varied by the four attributes. Maps depicted water test results for a fictitious hazardous substance in private residential wells and included a designated you live here location. Of the nine variables that assessed risk beliefs, the numerical susceptibility variable was most consistently and strongly related to map attributes and PBH. Hazard value, location in or out of a clustered dot pattern, and distance had the largest effects on susceptibility. Sometimes, hazard value interacted with other attributes, for example, distance had stronger effects on susceptibility for larger than smaller hazard values. For all combined maps, PBH explained about the same amount of variance in susceptibility as did attributes. Modeled PBH may have utility for studying the influence of proximity to mapped hazards on risk beliefs, protective behavior, and other dependent variables. Further work is needed to examine these influences for more realistic maps and representative study samples.

Severtson, D. J. and J. B. Henriques (2009). "The Effect of Graphics on Environmental Health Risk Beliefs, Emotions, Behavioral Intentions, and Recall." Risk Analysis 29(11): 1549-1565.	Lay people have difficulty understanding the meaning of environmental health risk information. Visual images can use features that leverage visual perception capabilities and semiotic conventions to promote meaningful comprehension. Such evidence-based features were employed to develop two images of a color-coded visual scale to convey drinking water test results. The effect of these images and a typical alphanumeric (AN) lab report were explored in a repeated measures randomized trial among 261 undergraduates. Outcome measures included risk beliefs, emotions, personal safety threshold, mitigation intentions, the durability of beliefs and intentions over time, and test result recall. The plain image conveyed the strongest risk message overall, likely due to increased visual salience. The more detailed graded image conveyed a stronger message than the AN format only for females. Images only prompted meaningful risk reduction intentions among participants with optimistically biased safety threshold beliefs. Fuzzy trace theory supported some findings as follow. Images appeared to promote the consolidation of beliefs over time from an initial meaning of safety to an integrated meaning of safety and health risk; emotion potentially shaped this process. Although the AN report fostered more accurate recall, images were related to more appropriate beliefs and intentions at both time points. Findings hinted at the potential for images to prompt appropriate beliefs independent of accurate factual knowledge. Overall, results indicate that images facilitated meaningful comprehension of environmental health risk information and suggest foci for further research.

Severtson, D. J. and J. D. Myers (2013). "The Influence of Uncertain Map Features on Risk Beliefs and Perceived Ambiguity for Maps of Modeled Cancer Risk from Air Pollution." Risk Analysis 33(5): 818-837.	Maps are often used to convey information generated by models, for example, modeled cancer risk from air pollution. The concrete nature of images, such as maps, may convey more certainty than warranted for modeled information. Three map features were selected to communicate the uncertainty of modeled cancer risk: (i) map contours appeared in or out of focus, (ii) one or three colors were used, and (iii) a verbal-relative or numeric risk expression was used in the legend. Study aims were to assess how these features influenced risk beliefs and the ambiguity of risk beliefs at four assigned map locations that varied by risk level. We applied an integrated conceptual framework to conduct this full factorial experiment with 32 maps that varied by the three dichotomous features and four risk levels; 826 university students participated. Data was analyzed using structural equation modeling. Unfocused contours and the verbal-relative risk expression generated more ambiguity than their counterparts. Focused contours generated stronger risk beliefs for higher risk levels and weaker beliefs for lower risk levels. Number of colors had minimal influence. The magnitude of risk level, conveyed using incrementally darker shading, had a substantial dose-response influence on the strength of risk beliefs. Personal characteristics of prior beliefs and numeracy also had substantial influences. Bottom-up and top-down information processing suggest why iconic visual features of incremental shading and contour focus had the strongest visual influences on risk beliefs and ambiguity. Variations in contour focus and risk expression show promise for fostering appropriate levels of ambiguity.

Shachar, O. (2000). "Spotlighting women scientists in the press: tokenism in science journalism." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 347-358.	Science and its practitioners have been extensively covered in the media, and research has analyzed this coverage. Yet relatively few studies have analyzed news coverage of science and scientists in a social context. This project concerns itself with the question of cultural power in the context of gendered media representation. In this study, I borrow on the concept of social tokenism and argue for its broader application for investigating journalistic discourse. In particular, I address the treatment of female scientists by science journalists as an illustration of the use of tokenistic rhetoric routines in the press. Before examining conceptualization and methodology, I provide a brief review of the portrayal of scientists as anchors in stories involved in the presentation of the scientific enterprise, including the depiction of female scientists in the news media.

Shan, L. R., et al. (2014). "Food crisis coverage by social and traditional media: A case study of the 2008 Irish dioxin crisis." Public Understanding of Science 23(8): 911-928.	The world of communication has changed significantly in the last decade as a result of the evolution of social media. Food crisis managers and communicators should be cognizant of the messages presented to the public by all media channels during a crisis. Using the 2008 Irish dioxin contamination incident as an example, a quantitative content analysis was carried out to investigate the relationship between social and traditional media. Messages published in printed newspapers (n = 141), blogs and forums (n = 107), and Twitter (n = 68) were analysed to investigate sourcing practice, story topic and use of tone. Results revealed that traditional media relied on diverse offline sources in reporting a wide range of topics. In comparison, social media responded faster and diminished faster, using offline and online media news messages as the primary sources in reporting very limited topics. No significant difference was found in the presence of negative tone across media.

Shanahan, J. (2000). "Television and common knowledge." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 463-464.
	
Shanahan, J. and J. Good (2000). "Heat and hot air: influence of local temperature on journalists' coverage of global warming." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 285-295.	This study examines relationships between local temperature in two cities (New York and Washington, D.C.) and coverage of global climate change in their local newspapers (the Times and the Post). The results show that there are some relationships between local temperature and frequency of attention to climate issues, such that journalists are more likely to discuss climate during unusually warm periods. However, support for the hypotheses was only partial; the Post did not show confirming relationships. The discussion focuses on implications for public understanding of climate change.

Shao, W. and K. Goidel (2016). "Seeing is Believing? An Examination of Perceptions of Local Weather Conditions and Climate Change Among Residents in the US Gulf Coast." Risk Analysis 36(11): 2136-2157.	What role do objective weather conditions play in coastal residents' perceptions of local climate shifts and how do these perceptions affect attitudes toward climate change? While scholars have increasingly investigated the role of weather and climate conditions on climate-related attitudes and behaviors, they typically assume that residents accurately perceive shifts in local climate patterns. We directly test this assumption using the largest and most comprehensive survey of Gulf Coast residents conducted to date supplemented with monthly temperature data from the U.S. Historical Climatology Network and extreme weather events data from National Climatic Data Center. We find objective conditions have limited explanatory power in determining perceptions of local climate patterns. Only the 15- and 19-year hurricane trends and decadal summer temperature trend have some effects on perceptions of these weather conditions, while the decadal trend of total number of extreme weather events and 15- and 19-year winter temperature trends are correlated with belief in climate change. Partisan affiliation, in contrast, plays a powerful role affecting individual perceptions of changing patterns of air temperatures, flooding, droughts, and hurricanes, as well as belief in the existence of climate change and concern for future consequences. At least when it comes to changing local conditions, seeing is not believing. Political orientations rather than local conditions drive perceptions of local weather conditions and these perceptionsrather than objectively measured weather conditionsinfluence climate-related attitudes.

Shapiro, M. A. and H. W. Park (2018). "Climate Change and YouTube: Deliberation Potential in Post-video Discussions." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(1): 115-131.	YouTube videos are a ubiquitous source of information but also a venue for users to comment on discussion boards that addend videos. There are no moderators of these discussions, and thus there is a possibility for self-appointed leaders to emerge, responding incessantly and across a genre of videos. These elites, as they are labelled here, use the discussion as a personal campaign tool, diminishing the deliberative potential of provocative topics. To determine whether this is happening and to complement existing research analyzing the content of comments, this paper focuses on the structure of the discussions that follow the most popular climate change-related videos. Network analysis confirms that discussions can be elite-driven, appearing in two different network structure types. Among the core group of elite commenters, most are either climate change activists or sceptics, and the most prolific commenters among this core group are activists.

Sharit, J., et al. (2008). "Examining links between sign-out reporting during shift changeovers and patient management risks." Risk Analysis 28(4): 969-981.	This article reports on a qualitative study that investigated how various risk factors associated with the process of sign-out reporting across shifts in critical care hospital environments could lead to flawed communication and thus to increased risk of poor patient outcomes. The study was performed in two critical care hospital units: the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) and the postanesthesia care unit (PACU). We collected data from observations of eight nurses and four resident physicians in the PICU and four nurses and four resident physicians in the PACU giving sign-out reports during their shift changes. In addition, we conducted semi-structured interviews with a separate sample of medical providers consisting of nurse managers, attending physicians, nurses, and residents from each of these two units. The issues that were addressed in these interviews included how various methods of conducting sign-outs and factors such as personality and experience could impact the effectiveness of communication during sign-out reporting. We also collected data from these medical providers on how failures in communication during sign-out reporting could lead to potentially adverse patient outcomes. The article concludes with the presentation of a modeling framework that demonstrates how the combined influences of risk factors can generate a particularly important type of failure mode in communication and how interventions can be targeted to serve as barriers to such events. A number of recommendations intended for reducing risks associated with the communication of sign-out reports are also presented.

Sharman, A. and C. Howarth (2017). "Climate stories: Why do climate scientists and sceptical voices participate in the climate debate?" Public Understanding of Science 26(7): 826-842.	Public perceptions of the climate debate predominantly frame the key actors as climate scientists versus sceptical voices; however, it is unclear why climate scientists and sceptical voices choose to participate in this antagonistic and polarised public battle. A narrative interview approach is used to better understand the underlying rationales behind 22 climate scientists' and sceptical voices' engagement in the climate debate, potential commonalities, as well as each actor's ability to be critically self-reflexive. Several overlapping rationales are identified including a sense of duty to publicly engage, agreement that complete certainty about the complex assemblage of climate change is unattainable and that political factors are central to the climate debate. We argue that a focus on potential overlaps in perceptions and rationales as well as the ability to be critically self-reflexive may encourage constructive discussion among actors previously engaged in purposefully antagonistic exchange on climate change.

Sharon, A. J. and A. Baram-Tsabari (2014). "Measuring mumbo jumbo: A preliminary quantification of the use of jargon in science communication." Public Understanding of Science 23(5): 528-546.	Leaders of the scientific community encourage scientists to learn effective science communication, including honing the skill to discuss science with little professional jargon. However, avoiding jargon is not trivial for scientists for several reasons, and this demands special attention in teaching and evaluation. Despite this, no standard measurement for the use of scientific jargon in speech has been developed to date. Here a standard yardstick for the use of scientific jargon in spoken texts, using a computational linguistics approach, is proposed. Analyzed transcripts included academic speech, scientific TEDTalks, and communication about the discovery of a Higgs-like boson at CERN. Findings suggest that scientists use less jargon in communication with a general audience than in communication with peers, but not always less obscure jargon. These findings may lay the groundwork for evaluating the use of jargon.

Shaw, A. (2002). ""It just goes against the grain". Public understandings of genetically modified (GM) food in the UK." Public Understanding of Science 11(3): 273-291.	This paper reports on one aspects of qualitative research on public understandings of food risks, focusing on lay understanding of genetically modified (GM) food in a UK context. A range of theoretical, conceptual, and empirical literature of food, risk, and the public understanding of science are reviewed. The fieldwork methods are outlined and empirical data from a range of lay groups are presented. Major themes include: varying "technical" knowledge of science, the relationship between knowledge and acceptance of genetic inappropriate scientific intervention in "nature" the acceptability of animal and human application of genetic modifications, the appropriate boundaries of scientific innovation, the necessity for GM foods, the uncertainty of risks in GM food. Key discussion points relating to a sociological understanding of public attitudes to GM food are raised and some policy implications are highlighted.

Sheehan, H. (2001). "Beyond the science wars: The missing discourse about science and society." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 249-250.
	
Shein, P. P., et al. (2014). "Relationship between scientific knowledge and fortune-telling." Public Understanding of Science 23(7): 780-796.	This study takes on a relational and situated perspective to understand the relationship between scientific knowledge and fortune-telling. Measures included socio-demographic characteristics, knowledge of scientific facts and methods, and fortune-telling beliefs and practices. A sample of 1863 adults was drawn from a population of Taiwanese citizens using the method of probability proportional to size. The findings showed that knowledge of scientific methods was negatively associated with fortune-telling beliefs. However, knowledge of scientific facts was, by and large, positively associated with engagement in fortune-telling practices, a phenomenon known as cognitive polyphasia. This study does not imply that science communication or education have no effect on promoting scientific knowledge; rather, it hopes to encourage researchers and practitioners to use a culturally sensitive lens to rethink the role of science in society and its relationship with other forms of knowledge and belief.

Shein, P. P., et al. (2015). "The four cultures: Public engagement with science only, art only, neither, or both museums." Public Understanding of Science 24(8): 943-956.	This study uses an art-and-science comparative lens to understand the science culture, particularly the public engagement with science museums. A representational Taiwanese sample of 1863 subjects was categorized into four cultures, who visit science only, art only, neither, or both museums, resulting in six multivariate logistic regression models. Knowledge of science, interests in scientific and social issues, and socio-demographic variables were considered in the models. Adults with children and males prefer science museums, females prefer art museums, and the young and urban intellects show no strong preference, appearing to be open to both science and art museums. The findings show the complex decisions the public make in visiting museums. It is no longer a strictly science or art decision, as framed by Snow's The Two Cultures argument; rather, the possibility of visiting both museums has emerged, a phenomenon we describe as cognitive polyphasia.

Shellabarger, R., et al. (2012). "The Influence of Place Meanings on Conservation and Human Rights in the Arizona Sonora Borderlands." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(3): 383-402.	Conservation and human rights are currently threatened by direct and indirect effects of border enforcement practices on the US-Mexico border. Increased border enforcement in urban areas has pushed migrants into remote conservation areas where thousands have died. Migration, smuggling, border enforcement, and aid provisioning contribute to ecological degradation of protected areas on the border. In this study we explore the discursively created physical, social, and cultural dimensions of place among land management personnel and humanitarian aid volunteers who were attempting to address the socio-ecological crises wrought by border enforcement in the Altar Valley region of southern Arizona. Land managers described physical place as an eroding ecosystem whereas humanitarians described physical place as a fragmenting system. Land managers saw crime as the defining social process while humanitarians pointed to social injustice. Finally, land managers viewed uncertainty as the primary cultural meaning, but humanitarians described empathy as the primary cultural meaning. We describe how these differences explain counterproductive conflict between humanitarian and land management groups, how viable local conservation solutions can emerge from an understanding of place, and how challenges arise as these solutions are scaled up to regional and national level policy. We suggest that the concept of culturescape integrated with place allows for an analysis of discourse that is especially local, and can be used to understand and improve upon natural resource conflicts that stem from attachments to place.

Shi, J., et al. (2015). "Public Perception of Climate Change: The Importance of Knowledge and Cultural Worldviews." Risk Analysis 35(12): 2183-2201.	The importance of knowledge for lay people's climate change concerns has been questioned in recent years, as it had been suggested that cultural values are stronger predictors of concern about climate change than knowledge. Studies that simultaneously measured knowledge related to climate change and cultural values have, however, been missing. We conducted a mail survey in the German-speaking part of Switzerland (N = 1,065). Results suggested that cultural worldviews and climate-related knowledge were significantly related with people's concern about climate change. Also, cultural worldviews and climate-relevant knowledge appeared important for people's willingness to change behaviors and to accept climate change policies. In addition, different types of knowledge were found to have different impacts on people's concern about climate change, their willingness to change behaviors, and their acceptance of policies about climate change. Specifically, causal knowledge significantly increased concern about climate change and willingness to support climate-friendly policies. We therefore concluded that risk communication should focus on causal knowledge, provided this knowledge does not threaten cultural values.

Shih, T. J. and C. Y. Lin (2017). "Developing Communication Strategies for Mitigating Actions Against Global Warming: Linking Framing and a Dual Processing Model." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 840-858.	Although there is increasing public awareness of global warming, there is a gap between such perception and relevant actions to combat the problem. In order to develop effective strategies for facilitating public actions, in this paper we draw upon framing theory and a dual processing model. Based on an experiment involving 261 participants from a large public university in Taiwan, this study found that by framing global warming as a local issue, communication messages can trigger both analytic (issue relevance) and affective (negative emotions) appraisals, which, in turn, will increase people's intentions to take actions. This study provides important insights for government and environmental groups when designing communication campaigns on this issue.

Shrestha, S., et al. (2014). "Constructions of Climate Change on the Radio and in Nepalese Lay Focus Groups." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(2): 161-178.	To date analyses of media climate change constructions have mostly focused on coverage in western newspapers. Consideration of coverage in developing countries, and analyses of media constructions alongside local understandings of climate change are comparatively rare. This article provides an analysis of the construction of climate change on Nepalese radio and lay constructions of environment and climate change within the country. Data from a radio program and six focus groups are analyzed. Analysis of the radio program indicated that climate change was portrayed as a certain reality with national impacts caused by the actions of the West. While climate change dominated the radio headlines, in focus groups local environmental problems received far more attention. The paper aims to both inform directions for future climate change communication in Nepal and the wider research agenda.

Siegrist, M. (1997). "Communicating low risk magnitudes: Incidence rates expressed as frequency versus rates expressed as probability." Risk Analysis 17(4): 507-510.	The study investigated the effects of incidence rates stated as a probability (e.g., .0006) and incidence rate information expressed in terms of frequency (e.g., 600 in 1,000,000) on risk-avoidant behavior. Subjects were informed about the risks associated with an old and a new, improved medication. They were asked how much they were willing to pay for the safer medicine. Risk information was given either in a frequency or a probability format. The second factor manipulated was the level of risk, either high or low. As expected, analysis of variance yielded a significant interaction. Subjects confronted with high risk in the frequency format were willing to pay the highest prices for the improved medication. The choice between frequency or probability format can be made according to the goal of the communication of risk.

Siegrist, M. (2014). "More questions than answers: a response to 'Four questions for risk communication' by Roger Kasperson (2014)." Journal of Risk Research 17(10): 1241-1243.
	
Siegrist, M., et al. (2012). "Trust, Confidence, Procedural Fairness, Outcome Fairness, Moral Conviction, and the Acceptance of GM Field Experiments." Risk Analysis 32(8): 1394-1403.	In 2005, Swiss citizens endorsed a moratorium on gene technology, resulting in the prohibition of the commercial cultivation of genetically modified crops and the growth of genetically modified animals until 2013. However, scientific research was not affected by this moratorium, and in 2008, GMO field experiments were conducted that allowed us to examine the factors that influence their acceptance by the public. In this study, trust and confidence items were analyzed using principal component analysis. The analysis revealed the following three factors: economy/health and environment (value similarity based trust), trust and honesty of industry and scientists (value similarity based trust), and competence (confidence). The results of a regression analysis showed that all the three factors significantly influenced the acceptance of GM field experiments. Furthermore, risk communication scholars have suggested that fairness also plays an important role in the acceptance of environmental hazards. We, therefore, included measures for outcome fairness and procedural fairness in our model. However, the impact of fairness may be moderated by moral conviction. That is, fairness may be significant for people for whom GMO is not an important issue, but not for people for whom GMO is an important issue. The regression analysis showed that, in addition to the trust and confidence factors, moral conviction, outcome fairness, and procedural fairness were significant predictors. The results suggest that the influence of procedural fairness is even stronger for persons having high moral convictions compared with persons having low moral convictions.

Siegrist, M., et al. (2008). "Risk communication, prenatal screening, and prenatal diagnosis: the illusion of informed decision-making." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 87-97.	Pregnant women's knowledge of prenatal tests was assessed in face-to-face interviews. The focus of the study was on how physicians communicate test results to their clients and whether women possess enough information to make informed decisions. Thirty-five women located in the German-speaking part of Switzerland participated in the study, which was based on half-standardized interviews lasting about an hour. Standardized questions were used to measure women's knowledge of prenatal tests. In selecting women to participate in the study, we ensured that they were counseled by different physicians. Results showed that most participants overestimated the risk of having a baby with Down syndrome. Most women had difficulties in interpreting a positive test result associated with blood tests (i.e., PAPP-A), but almost all women knew that this test provides a probabilistic outcome. Most women had very accurate knowledge of the risk of a miscarriage associated with invasive tests (i.e., amniocentesis, chorionic villus sampling). A substantial percentage of the women, however, did not realize that the invasive tests are also probabilistic tests. Overall, results of our study suggest that approaches to risk communication vary across physicians. There seems to be no standardization in counseling. In addition, our results suggest that many pregnant women may lack the knowledge necessary to make informed decisions regarding prenatal tests.

Siegrist, M. and G. Cvetkovich (2001). "Better negative than positive? Evidence of a bias for negative information about possible health dangers." Risk Analysis 21(1): 199-206.	Do the results of a scientific study influence confidence in the study's validity and the magnitude of change in the resulting perceived danger of the health risk investigated? Findings from the three investigations reported here indicate that scientific results that confirm a danger (negative results) do affect confidence in a study's validity and resulting risk assessments differently than results indicating low risk (positive results). Findings of Study 1 revealed that research results indicating a health risk were more trusted than results indicating little health risk. This effect was independent of the credibility of the information source. Study 2 demonstrated that confidence in research results increased with an increasing indication of health risk. Study 3 showed that people have more confidence in the results of animal tests on a food additive indicating negative human health effects than in animal tests indicating that a food additive is harmless. The findings have important practical implications. The observed asymmetry between positive and negative research results may be one reason that people are afraid of many of the hazards they are faced with in modern society.

Siegrist, M., et al. (2000). "Salient value similarity, social trust, and risk/benefit perception." Risk Analysis 20(3): 353-362.	It was postulated that shared values determine social trust in institutions and persons related to a technology: One has trust in people holding similar salient values. Furthermore, it was hypothesized that social trust has a positive influence on perceived benefits and a negative impact on perceived risks. Results of a survey of University of Zurich students indicated that the proposed causal model explained perception of pesticides, nuclear power, and artificial sweetener very well. When social trust was controlled, the relation between risks and benefits perceived diminished. Results indicate that social trust is a key predictive factor of the perceived risks and benefits of a technology, and provide support for the salient values similarity theory of social trust.

Siegrist, M., et al. (2003). "Test of a trust and confidence model in the applied context of electromagnetic field (EMF) risks." Risk Analysis 23(4): 705-716.	Trust is an important factor in risk management. There is little agreement among researchers, however, on how trust in risk management should be studied. Based on a comprehensive review of the trust literature a "dual-mode model of social trust and confidence" is proposed. Trust and confidence are separate but, under some circumstances, interacting sources of cooperation. Trust is based on value similarity, and confidence is based on performance. According to our model, judging similarity between an observer's currently active values and the values attributed to others determines social trust. Thus, the basis for trust is a judgment that the person to be trusted would act as the trusting person would. Interpretation of the other's performance influences confidence. Both social trust and confidence have an impact on people's willingness to cooperate (e.g., accept electromagnetic fields or ENIF in the neighborhood). The postulated model was tested in the applied context of ENIF risks. Structural equation modeling procedures and data from a random sample of 1,313 Swiss citizens between 18 and 74 years old were used. Results indicated that after minor modifications the model explained the data very well. In the applied context of ENIF risks, both trust and confidence had an impact on cooperation. Results suggest that the dual-mode model of social trust and confidence could be used as a common framework in the field of trust and risk management. Practical implications of the results are discussed.

Siegrist, M. and H. Gutscher (2008). "Natural hazards and motivation for mitigation behavior: People cannot predict the affect evoked by a severe flood." Risk Analysis 28(3): 771-778.	Past research indicates that personal flood experience is an important factor in motivating mitigation behavior. It is not fully clear, however, why such experience is so important. This study tested the hypothesis that people without flooding experience underestimate the negative affect evoked by such an event. People who were affected by a severe recent flood disaster were compared with people who were not affected, but who also lived in flood-prone areas. Face-to-face interviews with open and closed questions were conducted (n = 201). Results suggest that people without flood experience envisaged the consequences of a flood differently from people who had actually experienced severe losses due to a flood. People who were not affected strongly underestimated the negative affect associated with a flood. Based on the results, it can be concluded that risk communication must not focus solely on technical aspects; in order to trigger motivation for mitigation behavior, successful communication must also help people to envisage the negative emotional consequences of natural disasters.

Siegrist, M. and C. Keller (2011). "Natural frequencies and Bayesian reasoning: the impact of formal education and problem context." Journal of Risk Research 14(9): 1039-1055.	Research suggests that children and adults are able to solve Bayesian problems when natural frequencies are used, but most studies have involved only students or academics. The present research focuses on random samples from the general population. Experiments 1 and 2 showed that the natural-frequency format resulted in more Bayesian responses than the probability format. Results of Experiment 3 showed that when the task is not framed as a medical problem and the numbers are not too difficult, about 40% of the general population could correctly solve the problems. More importantly, the natural-frequency format resulted in a substantial increase in correct answers in the lower level of formal education group. Experiment 4 suggests that the context of a problem influences people's ability to solve a Bayesian problem. Participants were twice as likely to solve a social problem compared with a medical problem. The results of the four experiments show that natural frequency resulted in much better estimates than probabilities. It should be emphasized, however, that even when natural frequencies were used, a majority of participants were not able to solve the problems correctly.

Siegrist, M. and C. Keller (2011). "Labeling of Nanotechnology Consumer Products Can Influence Risk and Benefit Perceptions." Risk Analysis 31(11): 1762-1769.	Currently, there is no mandatory labeling for products containing synthetic nanoparticles. The public as well as other stakeholders have positive views about mandatory labeling. However, little is known how such a label influences the risk and benefit perception of a product. Consumers may infer that a label is a signal that there are risks associated with this technology. Data were collected in a survey experiment (N = 1,382). Participants were randomly assigned to one of six conditions. The control group received a picture of a sunscreen container without a label. One experimental group received a picture of a sunscreen container with a label. The other groups received, in addition to the sunscreen container with a label, some risk or benefit information. Results suggest that labeling of products may reduce consumers' benefit perception and increase risk perception. Labeling nanotechnology consumer products may change the public perception of the products. Respondents may have relied on the affect heuristic for assessing the risks and benefits of the sunscreen.

Siemsen, H. (2010). "The Mach-Planck debate revisited: democratization of science or elite knowledge?" Public Understanding of Science 19(3): 293-310.	Is scientific knowledge the domain of the intellectual elite or is it everyman's concern, thus making the popularization of science a democratic activity integrally required of science itself? This is a question whose history extends back even longer than the enlightenment period. As technology starts to permeate every inch of daily life, the issues involved for our future development become more pressing and a matter of socio-political development. Dostoyevsky brought this to the point in a fictional dispute between a Great Inquisitor and Christ. This was also the subject of fierce scientific debates, the most prominent of which was probably the debate between Ernst Mach and Max Planck at the turn of the century, before the first world war, when the new Physics (quantum theory and relativity) was discovered and its relevance for our view of the world and our place in it was hotly discussed. For Mach, the job of popularization should rest with science - an informed public cannot be manipulated as easily by 'pop science'. This article focuses on the mostly neglected political epistemological level of the debate, its sporadic later flare-ups in different places with different protagonists (Wagenschein, Wittenberg), and its relevance for the popularization of science today.

Silk, K. J., et al. (2014). "A Diffusion of Innovations Approach to Understand Stakeholder Perceptions of Renewable Energy Initiatives." Science Communication 36(5): 646-669.	This study uses diffusion of innovations (DOI) as a framework for formative research to understand different stakeholders' perceptions of renewable energy initiatives (i.e., wind, solar, and biomass). Focus groups (N = 12) were conducted with several different stakeholders in Michigan: farmers (n = 17), rural residents (n = 20), urban residents (n = 30), citizen activists/environmentalists (n = 13), and individuals who live in tourist-based economies (n = 7). Data were analyzed based on DOI constructs. Results suggest that farmers would be considered early adopters, while urban residents would fall in the late majority. Overall, stakeholder groups perceived renewable energy to be relatively advantageous and compatible with their values.

Silva, E. O. and C. C. Lowe (2015). "Evolutionary theory in letters to the editor." Public Understanding of Science 24(4): 440-449.	This research note presents the results of a content analysis of 234 letters to the editors that discuss evolutionary theory and were published in American newspapers. We find that letters to the editor both support and hinder the cause of teaching evolutionary theory in American secondary schools. On the one hand, anti-evolutionary theory messages are marginalized in the letters section. This marginalization signals a low level of legitimacy for creationism. It might also contribute to the sense of tension that sustains creationist identities. On the other hand, relatively few letters explicitly note the fact that scientists or the scientific community accept evolution. Interestingly, the obscuration of the scientific community's support for evolutionary theory occurs both in letters supporting and opposing evolutionary theory.

Silverman, R. J. (1994). "Comments and Replies - Academic Conversations." Science Communication 16(2): 132-151.
	
Simis, M. J., et al. (2016). "The lure of rationality: Why does the deficit model persist in science communication?" Public Understanding of Science 25(4): 400-414.	Science communication has been historically predicated on the knowledge deficit model. Yet, empirical research has shown that public communication of science is more complex than what the knowledge deficit model suggests. In this essay, we pose four lines of reasoning and present empirical data for why we believe the deficit model still persists in public communication of science. First, we posit that scientists' training results in the belief that public audiences can and do process information in a rational manner. Second, the persistence of this model may be a product of current institutional structures. Many graduate education programs in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields generally lack formal training in public communication. We offer empirical evidence that demonstrates that scientists who have less positive attitudes toward the social sciences are more likely to adhere to the knowledge deficit model of science communication. Third, we present empirical evidence of how scientists conceptualize the public and link this to attitudes toward the deficit model. We find that perceiving a knowledge deficit in the public is closely tied to scientists' perceptions of the individuals who comprise the public. Finally, we argue that the knowledge deficit model is perpetuated because it can easily influence public policy for science issues. We propose some ways to uproot the deficit model and move toward more effective science communication efforts, which include training scientists in communication methods grounded in social science research and using approaches that engage community members around scientific issues.

Simis-Wilkinson, M., et al. (2018). "Scientists Joking on Social Media: An Empirical Analysis of #overlyhonestmethods." Science Communication 40(3): 314-339.	The #overlyhonestmethods trend on Twitter is a space used by many scientists to peel back the curtain on their work and share observations and insights into the research world. We employ computer-assisted coding to assess the themes of 58,125 #overlyhonestmethods posts from January 7, 2013-the hashtag's inception-to January 6, 2016. We additionally manually code a random sample of the census of tweets to evaluate the types of humor employed, as well as the targets of jokes and exclusivity of language. We offer analyses of this self-deprecating, insider conversation and an assessment of the associated ethical implications.

Simmerling, A. and N. Janich (2016). "Rhetorical functions of a "language of uncertainty' in the mass media." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 961-975.	As linguists, we are interested in the way uncertainty, understood as a range of epistemic qualities related to not knowing, is dealt with linguistically in communicative contexts involving scientists, the mass media and the public. One of our central theses is that uncertainty in journalistic texts is not only reflected at different linguistic levels but that it also has various rhetorical functions. Through close analysis of a German newspaper article about geo-engineering, we show which specific linguistic forms, categories and structures are used when dealing with uncertainty, and which rhetorical functions of uncertainty are identifiable in the text. We conclude from our analysis that a language of (un-)certainty' is always highly context sensitive, meaning that the linguistic resources used to express uncertainty are both multifaceted and multifunctional.

Simon, B. (2001). "Public science: media configuration and closure in the cold fusion controversy." Public Understanding of Science 10(4): 383-402.	This paper considers the role of the news media as a mode of inter-specialist communication in the controversy over cold fusion in 1989. Drawing on the work of Lewenstein, Gieryn and Bucchi, media representations in the early weeks of the controversy are seen as epistemologically significant for facilitating closure by configuring "cold fusion" in terms of recognizable technical and cultural discourses of nuclear fusion. These representations work as resources for stabilizing a conception of the experimental phenomenon thereby providing scientists engaged in replication with a means of breaking the "experimenter's regress" and bringing the controversy to a relatively swift closure.

Simon, J. (2006). "The environmental communication yearbook, vol 2." Science Communication 27(4): 565-566.
	
Simon, R. M. (2010). "Gender differences in knowledge and attitude towards biotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 19(6): 642-653.	The relationship between gender, knowledge of biotechnology, attitudes toward biotechnology, and various socio-demographic variables was investigated using the Eurobarometer 52.1. It was found that neither socio-demographics, nor differing levels of scientific knowledge could explain females' greater probability of being pessimistic toward biotechnology. After running separate models for males and females, it was discovered that, for males, more knowledge of biotechnology decreased their probability of being pessimistic about science, but for females more knowledge of biotechnology actually lead to a greater probability of being pessimistic. Further, a gender-education interaction was discovered that revealed that, for males, education and knowledge of biotechnology have independent effects on attitudes, but for females education has no effect on attitudes towards biotechnology when knowledge is controlled. The results for females complicate the deficit model of social support for science, which posits that more knowledge of science always leads to more positive attitudes.

Simon, R. M. (2011). "Gendered contexts: Masculinity, knowledge, and attitudes toward biotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 20(3): 334-346.	Research into the public understanding of science has revealed that the effect of scientific knowledge on attitudes toward science is contextualized by gender; however there has not yet been an account of how gender contextualizes knowledge. This paper investigates how gender identification affects attitudes toward science, and tempers the effects of scientific knowledge on attitudes toward science. Utilizing data from the Eurobarometer 52.1, it is predicted that when males perceive a threat to their masculinity (as measured by a perceived threat to their financial security) they will become more likely to be aversive to biotechnology, and that increased levels of perceived threat will reduce the effects of knowledge on attitudes toward biotechnology. Moreover, it is predicted that these effects will be smaller than their female counterparts. All predictions are affirmed.

Simonneaux, L. and D. Jacobi (1997). "Language constraints in producing prefiguration posters for a scientific exhibition." Public Understanding of Science 6(4): 383-408.	The museographic transposition of scientific knowledge leads notably to the preparation of exhibition posters. This is a delicate operation, on account of the constraints imposed by space, language, concepts and the text. These difficulties are even greater in the case of bovine reproduction biotechnologies, such as cloning, where knowledge is not yet stable. This paper deals with the choices made during the phase of museographic transposition. First of all, based on an epistemological approach, a historical analysis of knowledge-building underpins the choice of information to tx presented. Language is then selected according to the linguistic analysis of a series of articles which popularize science. Finally, the posters are assessed by samples of potential visitors.

Sinclair, J., et al. (2003). "Motives to seek threatened and endangered species information for land-use decisions." Science Communication 25(1): 39-55.	A survey based on the theory of planned behavior was administered to land-use decision makers in south Florida to examine motivation to use scientific information about threatened and endangered species for planning and regulation. Past behavior, attitude toward act, and social norms predicted 42 percent of the variance in intention to seek information such as the Multispecies Recovery Plan. Past behavior may be an important determinant for information-seeking behavior, and social norms may be particularly relevant for decision makers. Perceived behavior control may not be as relevant when past behavior levels are relatively low.

Singer, R. (2010). "Neoliberal Style, the American Re-Generation, and Ecological Jeremiad in Thomas Friedman's oCode Greeno." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(2): 135-151.	Emerging popular literature trumpeting the prospects for Manifest Destiny through a greener capitalism illustrates the re-emergence of American myth to explain chaotic times and uphold America's exceptional character. Today, this character is dominated ideologically by the rhetorical repertoire of neoliberal economics. In this essay, the author dissects neoliberal rhetorical style as articulated through national myth and ecological jeremiad in bestselling author Thomas Friedman's (2008) oCode Greeno thesis. In Code Green, an American strategy for confronting the convergence of global warming, new economic competition abroad, and population growth, the author traces a mythic oevolutiono in ecological jeremiad toward a sustainable free market frontier. Crafting a muscular yet ostensibly non-political rhetoric of individualist sacrifice and reward, Friedman refigures the dark side of Western-led globalization's past.

Singer, R. (2011). "Visualizing Agrarian Myth and Place-Based Resistance in South Central Los Angeles." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(3): 344-349.	The Garden, a drama documentary, visualizes a cultural trend toward the resistive re-articulation of mythic assumptions about the morality of farming within a nation of predominantly urban citizens. The tale unfolds as the virtuous main character (the South Central Farmers) struggles against villains threatening the mythology of agrarianism. By invoking the myth of a new agrarianism, the film is able to expose the ethnic, raced, classed, and gendered basis of land-use rhetoric, and how it perpetuates unequal access to dominant myths as empowerment resources.

Singleton, V. (2000). "Revisioning women, health and healing: Feminist, cultural and technoscience perspectives." Public Understanding of Science 9(4): 466-467.
	
Sjoberg, L. (2001). "Limits of knowledge and the limited importance of trust." Risk Analysis 21(1): 189-198.	Perveiced risk and related attitudes have been implicated as major factors in many of the difficult policy problems that fact: modern society (nuclear power. genetically modified food, etc). Experts often argue that no or very small risks are involved; people are still worried. Why? The standard answer is lack of trust. Data on trust and risk perception, however, point to only a weak relationship between the two (r approximately 0.3). It is suggested here that the reason for the surprisingly minor importance of trust is that people believe that there art: clear limits to how much science and experts know. Results are presented from studies of risk perception of the public, experts, and politicians. Politicians and members of the public believe that there are many unknown effects of technology and such beliefs were strongly related to their perceived risk. Experts on nuclear waste, on the other hand, seemed to believe that little is unknown in their field of expertise. Regression analyses of risk perception showed the unknown-effects factor to be a more important explanatory factor than trust for the public and politicians.

Sjoberg, L. (2003). "Attitudes and risk perceptions of stakeholders in a nuclear waste siting issue." Risk Analysis 23(4): 739-749.	Stakeholders are often regarded as a critically important group in such issues as the siting of nuclear facilities. In this article, stakeholders were identified on the basis of self-reported activities with regard to a nuclear waste siting issue under debate in four communities. Data were obtained in an extensive mailed survey from a total of 2,548 respondents, approximately an equal number from each community. The overall response rate was 43.9%. Some of the results and telephone interviews with a sample of the nonrespondents indicated that the data are reasonably representative of the respective populations. Stakeholder activities were measured by 20 questions and combined with an index of stakeholder activity level, dichotomized at the 90th percentile. Stakeholders were found to have a higher level of education than others, but otherwise they did not differ in demographics. They did not tend to see risks in general as high, but were quite interested and involved in the nuclear waste siting issue. The stakeholder activity level correlated with risk perception and attitudes in the waste siting issue, but with different signs for those who were for and those who were opposed: stakeholders of both types had more extreme views than others, but in different directions. In addition, stakeholder opponents were much more likely to strongly espouse extreme statements regarding the project than were supporters who also were stakeholders. Implications for risk management and communication are discussed.

Skarlatidou, A., et al. (2012). "What Do Lay PeopleWant to Know About the Disposal of Nuclear Waste? A Mental Model Approach to the Design and Development of an Online Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 32(9): 1496-1511.	Public participation requires the involvement of lay people in the decision-making processes of issues that concern them. It is currently practiced in a variety of domains, such as transport and environmental planning. Communicating risks can be a complex task, as there may be significant differences between the risk perceptions of experts and those of lay people. Among the plethora of problems that require public involvement is the site selection of a nuclear waste disposal site in the United Kingdom, which is discussed in this article. Previous ineffective attempts to locate a site provide evidence that the problem has a strong social dimension, and studies ascribe public opposition to a loss of public trust in governmental agencies and decisionmakers, and to a lack of public understanding of nuclear waste issues. Although the mental models approach has been successfully used in the effective communication of such risks as climate change, no attempt has been made to follow a prescriptive mental model approach to develop risk communication messages that inform lay people about nuclear waste disposal. After interviewing 20 lay people and 5 experts, we construct and compare their corresponding mental models to reveal any gaps and misconceptions. The mental models approach is further applied here to identify lay people's requirements regarding what they want to know about nuclear waste, and how this information should be presented so that it is easily understood. This article further describes how the mental models approach was used in the subsequent development of an online information system for the site selection of a nuclear waste repository in the United Kingdom, which is considered essential for the improvement of public understanding and the reestablishment of trust.

Skinner, J. (2008). "The text and the tale: differences between scientific reports and scientists' reportings on the eruption of Mount Chance, Montserrat." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 255-267.	This article looks at the difference between scientists' written reports and their oral accounts, explanations and stories. The subject of these discourses is the eruption of Mount Chance on Montserrat, a British Overseas Territory in the Eastern Caribbean, and its continued monitoring and reporting. Scientific notions of risk and uncertainty which feature in these texts and tales will subsequently be examined and critiqued. Further to this, this article will end by pointing out that, ironically, the latter - the tale - can in some cases be a more effective and approximate mode of communication with the public than the former - the text.

Skjolsvold, T. M. (2012). "Curb Your Enthusiasm: On Media Communication of Bioenergy and the Role of the News Media in Technology Diffusion." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(4): 512-531.	There is widespread agreement that the mitigation of climate changes requires societies across the globe to speed up the diffusion of renewable energy technologies. This article pursues an interest in the diffusion of one such technology: bioenergy. It does so through a study of how bioenergy is covered and communicated in the news media of Norway and Sweden, countries where the diffusion of this technology looks radically different. Mobilizing a domestication perspective, it finds that the news media in the two countries ascribe diverging meaning to the technology, offering audiences clearly varied images of what bioenergy is. In other words, the technology is domesticated in different ways, suggesting that media coverage plays a role in systems of innovation and diffusion. How this affects the public, however, is an under analyzed element in the innovation and diffusion literature, and the article calls for further investigation into this matter.

Slappendel, C. (1994). "Knowledge Use Versus Capabilty Development - the Case of Applying Ergonomics to Product Design." Science Communication 16(2): 195-205.	A comparative case analysis focusing on the use of a specialist knowledge base (ergonomics) in the product design and development function of six New Zealand organizations found that a considerable portion of the ergonomics knowledge used was internally generated. As a result of this finding, the conceptual emphasis of the study shifted away from a focus on the use of externally generated information to an examination of the processes by which an ergonomics capability emerged and developed within each organization. The definition of capability used in the study embraces both theoretical knowledge and practical knowledge.

Slawter, L. D. (2008). "TreeHuggerTV: Re-Visualizing Environmental Activism in the Post-Network Era." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(2): 212-228.	As a collection of online videos that explores how to create, consume, and live in environmentally responsible ways, TreeHuggerTV offers a productive site for examining environmental activism at the intersection of nature and culture. This paper looks at TreeHuggerTV as a form of environmental activism that emerges on post-network television. This analysis traces how TreeHuggerTV productively re-visualizes the environment, environmentalists, and environmentalism. In the online videos, the environment appears in the urban landscapes where people live, environmentalists are shown as "hip, not hippie,'' and environmentalism is manifested in the form of green consumerism. Despite the limitations of consumer-driven forms of environmentalism, the author examines the potential of this environmental activism that embraces human culture in relation to the environment. While promoting green consumption may fail to push viewers beyond individual and incremental forms of activism, TreeHuggerTV creates an accessible entrance into environmentalism for viewers in a commercial medium. The fragmented viewing audience of this post-network form of television further indicates that this consumer environmentalism operates as a productive supplement to, rather than replacement of, other forms of environmental activism. The interplay between the form and content of TreeHuggerTV represents an important site to begin studying the future of environmental activism and its intersections with new media developments such as post-network television.

Sleenhoff, S., et al. (2015). "Unravelling emotional viewpoints on a bio-based economy using Q methodology." Public Understanding of Science 24(7): 858-877.	A transition to a bio-based economy will affect society and requires collective action from a broad range of stakeholders. This includes the public, who are largely unaware of this transition. For meaningful public engagement people's emotional viewpoints play an important role. However, what the public's emotions about the transition are and how they can be taken into account is underexposed in public engagement literature and practice. This article aims to unravel the public's emotional views of the bio-based economy as a starting point for public engagement. Using Q methodology with visual representations of a bio-based economy we found four emotional viewpoints: (1) compassionate environmentalist, (2) principled optimist, (3) hopeful motorist and (4) cynical environmentalist. These provide insight into the distinct and shared ways through which members of the public connect with the transition. Implications for public engagement are discussed.

Sleenhoff, S. and P. Osseweijer (2016). "How people feel their engagement can have efficacy for a bio-based society." Public Understanding of Science 25(6): 719-736.	Up till now, the transition to a bio-based economy mainly involves expert stakeholders. However, the actions required are of a collective scale necessitating public engagement for support and action. Such engagement is only successful if members of the public believe their participation holds efficacy. This belief is closely linked to their personal representation of the issue. We report findings from our Q methodology workshop that explored public's efficacy beliefs on their perceived ways for engagement with a bio-based economy. Participants were provided with stakeholders' visual representations depicting a concourse of the transition to a bio-based economy for Q sorting. We found five efficacy beliefs that differ in scale on which participants consider themselves capable for action. These results indicate that members of the public foresee distinct and shared ways and levels in how they can engage with the transition to a bio-based society that do not always concur with stakeholders' views.

Sleeth-Keppler, D., et al. (2017). "It's a Matter of Trust: American Judgments of the Credibility of Informal Communicators on Solutions to Climate Change." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(1): 17-40.	Using an October 2013 national probability sample of US adults (N=1737), we examine the credibility of informal communicators (e.g. neighbors, co-workers, religious leaders, and health professionals) on solutions to climate change (regulatory and technological solutions). We present our analysis in terms of Kruglanski et al.'s [(2005). Says who? Epistemic authority effects in social judgment. Advances in Experimental Social Psychology, 37, 345-392] epistemic authority framework, which explains dynamics of trust in formal sources of authority with specific expertise (e.g. climate scientists) and informal sources of authority in a person's life (e.g. a priest). Trust in formal communicators (scientists and President Obama) consistently predicts trust in informal communicators (e.g. health professionals), and perceived effectiveness of climate solutions. Results further show that social and demographic groups that do not primarily rely on formal communicators on solutions to climate change instead rely more on various informal communicators. For example, political conservatism positively predicts trust in religious leaders, and religiosity further predicts trust in congregants, neighbors, co-workers, bosses and health professionals on solutions to climate change. Discussion focuses on implications for future research, and recommendations for policy actors, environmental communicators, and social marketers interested in broadening the scope of climate outreach.

Slovic, P. (1993). "Perceived Risk, Trust, and Democracy." Risk Analysis 13(6): 675-682.	Risk management has become increasingly politicized and contentious. Polarized views, controversy, and overt conflict have become pervasive. Risk-perception research has recently begun to provide a new perspective on this problem. Distrust in risk analysis and risk management plays a central role in this perspective. According to this view, the conflicts and controversies surrounding risk management are not due to public ignorance or irrationality but, instead, are seen as a side effect of our remarkable form of participatory democracy, amplified by powerful technological and social changes that systematically destroy trust. Recognizing the importance of trust and understanding the ''dynamics of the system'' that destroys trust has vast implications for how we approach risk management in the future.

Slovic, P. (1999). "Trust, emotion, sex, politics, and science: Surveying the risk-assessment battlefield (Reprinted from Environment, ethics, and behavior, pg 277-313, 1997)." Risk Analysis 19(4): 689-701.	Risk management has become increasingly politicized and contentious. Polarized views, controversy, and conflict have become pervasive. Research has begun to provide a new perspective on this problem by demonstrating the complexity of the concept "risk" and the inadequacies of the traditional view of risk assessment as a purely scientific enterprise. This paper argues that danger is real, but risk is socially constructed. Risk assessment is inherently subjective and represents a blending of science and judgment with important psychological, social, cultural, and political factors. In addition, our social and democratic institutions, remarkable as they are in many respects, breed distrust in the risk arena. Whoever controls the definition of risk controls the rational solution to the problem at hand. If risk is defined one way, then one option will rise to the top as the most cost-effective or the safest or the best. If it is defined another way, perhaps incorporating qualitative characteristics and other contextual factors, one will likely get a different ordering of action solutions. Defining risk is thus an exercise in power. Scientific literacy and public education are important, but they are not central to risk controversies. The public is not irrational. Their judgments about risk are influenced by emotion and affect in a way that is both simple and sophisticated. The same holds true for scientists. Public views are also influenced by worldviews, ideologies, and values; so are scientists' views, particularly when they are working at the limits of their expertise. The limitations of risk science, the importance and difficulty of maintaining trust, and the complex, sociopolitical nature of risk point to the need for a new approach-one that focuses upon introducing more public participation into both risk assessment and risk decision making in order to make the decision process more democratic, improve the relevance and quality of technical analysis, and increase the legitimacy and public acceptance of the resulting decisions.

Slovic, P., et al. (2004). "Risk as analysis and risk as feelings: Some thoughts about affect, reason, risk, and rationality." Risk Analysis 24(2): 311-322.	Modern theories in cognitive psychology and neuroscience indicate that there are two fundamental ways in which human beings comprehend risk. The "analytic system" uses algorithms and normative rules, such as probability calculus, formal logic, and risk assessment. It is relatively slow, effortful, and requires conscious control. The "experiential system" is intuitive, fast, mostly automatic, and not very accessible to conscious awareness. The experiential system enabled human beings to survive during their long period of evolution and remains today the most natural and most common way to respond to risk. It relies on images and associations, linked by experience to emotion and affect (a feeling that something is good or bad). This system represents risk as a feeling that tells us whether it is safe to walk down this dark street or drink this strange-smelling water. Proponents of formal risk analysis tend to view affective responses to risk as irrational. Current wisdom disputes this view. The rational and the experiential systems operate in parallel and each seems to depend on the other for guidance. Studies have demonstrated that analytic reasoning cannot be effective unless it is guided by emotion and affect. Rational decision making requires proper integration of both modes of thought. Both systems have their advantages, biases, and limitations. Now that we are beginning to understand the complex interplay between emotion and reason that is essential to rational behavior, the challenge before us is to think creatively about what this means for managing risk. On the one hand, how do we apply reason to temper the strong emotions engendered by some risk events? On the other hand, how do we infuse needed "doses of feeling" into circumstances where lack of experience may otherwise leave us too "coldly rational"? This article addresses these important questions.

Slovic, P., et al. (1995). "Intuitive toxicology .2. Expert and lay judgments of chemical risks in Canada." Risk Analysis 15(6): 661-675.	This study is a replication and extension in Canada of a previous study in the United States in which toxicologists and members of the public were surveyed to determine their attitudes, beliefs, and perceptions regarding risks from chemicals. This study of ''intuitive vs. scientific toxicology'' was motivated by the premise that different assumptions, conceptions, and values underlie much of the discrepancy between expert and lay views of chemical risks. The results showed that Canadian toxicologists had far lower perceptions of risk and more favorable attitudes toward chemicals than did the Canadian public. The public's attitudes were quite negative and showed the same lack of dose-response sensitivity found in the earlier U.S. study. Both the public and the toxicologists lacked confidence in the value of animal studies for predicting human health risks. However, the public had great confidence in the validity of animal studies that found evidence of carcinogenicity, whereas such evidence was not considered highly predictive of human health risk by many toxicologists. Technical judgments of toxicologists were found to be associated with factors such as affiliation, gender, and worldviews. Implications of these data for risk communication are briefly discussed.

Smail, B. (2000). "Communicating science, vol. 1: Contexts and channels." Public Understanding of Science 9(1): 79-80.
	
Smallman, M. (2016). "Public Understanding of Science in turbulent times III: Deficit to dialogue, champions to critics." Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 186-197.	As part of the 20th Anniversary of the Public Understanding of Science journal, the journal has been reflecting on how the field and journal have developed. This research note takes a closer look at some of the trends, considering the journal's 50 most cited papers and using IRaMuTeQ, an open-source computer text analysis technique. The research note presents data that show that the move within public engagement from deficit to dialogue has been followed by a further shift from championing dialogue to criticising its practice. This shift has taken place alongside a continued, but changing, interest in media coverage, surveys and models of public understanding.

Smallman, M. (2018). "Science to the rescue or contingent progress? Comparing 10years of public, expert and policy discourses on new and emerging science and technology in the United Kingdom." Public Understanding of Science 27(6): 655-673.	Over the past 10years, numerous public debates on new and emerging science and technologies have taken place in the United Kingdom. In this article, we characterise the discourses emerging from these debates and compare them to the discourses in analogous expert scientific and policy reports. We find that while the public is broadly supportive of new scientific developments, they see the risks and social and ethical issues associated with them as unpredictable but inherent parts of the developments. In contrast, the scientific experts and policymakers see risks and social and ethical issues as manageable and quantifiable with more research and knowledge. We argue that these differences amount to two different sociotechnical imaginaries or views of science and how it shapes our world - an elite imaginary of science to the rescue' shared by scientists and policymakers and public counter-imaginary of contingent progress'. We argue that these two imaginaries indicate that, but also help explain why, public dialogue has had limited impact on public policy.

Smerecnik, C. M. R., et al. (2012). "Risk Perception and Information Processing: The Development and Validation of a Questionnaire to Assess Self-Reported Information Processing." Risk Analysis 32(1): 54-66.	The role of information processing in understanding people's responses to risk information has recently received substantial attention. One limitation of this research concerns the unavailability of a validated questionnaire of information processing. This article presents two studies in which we describe the development and validation of the Information-Processing Questionnaire to meet that need. Study 1 describes the development and initial validation of the questionnaire. Participants were randomized to either a systematic processing or a heuristic processing condition after which they completed a manipulation check and the initial 15-item questionnaire and again two weeks later. The questionnaire was subjected to factor reliability and validity analyses on both measurement times for purposes of cross-validation of the results. A two-factor solution was observed representing a systematic processing and a heuristic processing subscale. The resulting scale showed good reliability and validity, with the systematic condition scoring significantly higher on the systematic subscale and the heuristic processing condition significantly higher on the heuristic subscale. Study 2 sought to further validate the questionnaire in a field study. Results of the second study corresponded with those of Study 1 and provided further evidence of the validity of the Information-Processing Questionnaire. The availability of this information-processing scale will be a valuable asset for future research and may provide researchers with new research opportunities.

Smerecnik, C. M. R., et al. (2010). "Understanding the Positive Effects of Graphical Risk Information on Comprehension: Measuring Attention Directed to Written, Tabular, and Graphical Risk Information." Risk Analysis 30(9): 1387-1398.	Risk communications are an integral aspect of health education and promotion. However, the commonly used textual risk information is relatively difficult to understand for the average recipient. Consequently, researchers and health promoters have started to focus on so-called decision aids, such as tables and graphs. Although tabular and graphical risk information more effectively communicate risks than textual risk information, the cognitive mechanisms responsible for this enhancement are unclear. This study aimed to examine two possible mechanisms (i.e., cognitive workload and attention). Cognitive workload (mean pupil size and peak pupil dilation) and attention directed to the risk information (viewing time, number of eye fixations, and eye fixation durations) were both measured in a between-subjects experimental design. The results suggest that graphical risk information facilitates comprehension of that information because it attracts and holds attention for a longer period of time than textual risk information. Graphs are thus a valuable asset to risk communication practice for two reasons: first, they tend to attract attention and, second, when attended to, they elicit information extraction with relatively little cognitive effort, and finally result in better comprehension.

Smerecnik, K. R. and V. R. Renegar (2010). "Capitalistic Agency: The Rhetoric of BP's Helios Power Campaign." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(2): 152-171.	In this essay, we use rhetorical analysis to examine how British Petroleum's (BP) Helios Power media campaign both encourages and embodies capitalistic agency as the means to enact pro-environmental behavior. This form of agency limits the scope of environmentalism. Capitalistic agency can be conceptualized as the capacity to enact, or the process of enacting, capitalistic ends as well as the inherent constraining of agency that is not oriented toward the production of capital. Helios Power, launched in 2007, is BP's most recent American television, radio, internet advertising, and branding campaign. We examine the campaign website which heavily incorporates green marketing, including background images of wind turbines, environmental buzzwords throughout the text, green color schemes, and a section dedicated to conservation advocacy. By rhetorically aligning BP with environmentalism, providing customers a means of participation with environmentalism, and constraining profit-hindering conservation behaviors, Helios Power provides a vivid illustration for understanding the impact of capitalistic agency on society's perception of and progress toward environmental sustainability.

Smillie, L. and A. Blissett (2010). "A model for developing risk communication strategy." Journal of Risk Research 13(1): 115-134.	Risk communication is of vital importance in today's society, as audiences become ever more questioning of the causes and effects of risk. However, the communication of risk is a complex activity involving many different types of communicators from scientists, to the media, to government agencies, industry and consumer groups, each of which has its own agendas to fulfil. Such variation across the communication of the same risk can lead to confusion, misunderstandings and subsequent misreporting in the media. This paper proposes a new model which aims to prevent such unnecessary fallouts. The model provides a method by which all communicators can reliably appraise risk in the context of the current risk environment, allowing the successful design and implementation of an effective communication strategy. The model highlights the necessity that the next era of communication must be directed towards a collaborative approach between communicators across the board.

Smith, B. K. and E. A. Jensen (2016). "Critical review of the United Kingdom's "gold standard" survey of public attitudes to science." Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 154-170.	Since 2000, the UK government has funded surveys aimed at understanding the UK public's attitudes toward science, scientists, and science policy. Known as the Public Attitudes to Science series, these surveys and their predecessors have long been used in UK science communication policy, practice, and scholarship as a source of authoritative knowledge about science-related attitudes and behaviors. Given their importance and the significant public funding investment they represent, detailed academic scrutiny of the studies is needed. In this essay, we critically review the most recently published Public Attitudes to Science survey (2014), assessing the robustness of its methods and claims. The review casts doubt on the quality of key elements of the Public Attitudes to Science 2014 survey data and analysis while highlighting the importance of robust quantitative social research methodology. Our analysis comparing the main sample and booster sample for young people demonstrates that quota sampling cannot be assumed equivalent to probability-based sampling techniques.

Smith, B. T. L. (2013). "Indeterministic metaphors: The popular science books of Fritjof Capra and Gary Zukav." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 538-545.	In the popular accounts of the new physics (i.e. relativity and quantum mechanics) by Fritjof Capra and Gary Zukav, the new physics is represented as fatally undermining the universal determinism associated with Newton and Laplace. This paper explores how different metaphors - anthropomorphic metaphors, metaphors of exploration and mapping, and metaphors of shadows - are used strategically by these writers to advance this characterisation of the new physics as indeterministic.

Smith, D. R. (2016). "One Scientist's Struggle to Be a Better Writer, and a Plea for Undergraduate Science-Writing Engagement." Science Communication 38(5): 666-674.	In an age where we are saturated with online information, effective communication is more important than ever. Unfortunately, many scientists are ineffective, unskilled, and/or not interested at communicating their research to the general public. Moreover, at some universities, undergraduate science students do not receive adequate training in writing and outreach, thus perpetuating the problem. Here, I recount my own battle to become a better science writer and communicator and how I have tried to integrate public outreach and popular writing into my undergraduate teaching and research.

Smith, H. M. and L. Lindenfeld (2014). "Integrating Media Studies of Climate Change into Transdisciplinary Research: Which Direction Should We Be Heading?" Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(2): 179-196.	Research in the area of media coverage on climate change communication represents one of the most prolific areas of inquiry within communication and mass communication studies. This body of literature, which ranges from empirical to critical studies, continues to expand. Much research has focused on representations of climate change causes, effects, and human actions, while some has assessed the impacts of these representations. What is broadly missing from this literature, however, is a discussion of how we might integrate media analysis into transdisciplinary collaborative research aimed at creating solutions to the social, environmental, and economic issues intertwined with climate change. Given the magnitude of problems the society and science are currently grasping with, it behooves us to understand how media studies can contribute most effectively to characterizing and solving problems. We maintain that the move toward integrating media studies into transdisciplinary collaborative research marks an essential transition for environmental communication in general, but climate change communication in particular, given the urgency and magnitude of creating meaningful adaptation and mitigation strategies to address this pressing, complex challenge. Drawing on our work as part of a large transdisciplinary sustainability science team, we provide a case study for understanding what collaborations are key to moving media studies into a transdisciplinary context and the key opportunities and barriers that come along with that move. We argue that media studies must increasingly engage directly in collaboration with other researchers, stakeholders, and communities to serve on-the-ground decision-making and enhance society's ability to take action.

Smith, H. M. and T. Norton (2013). ""That's Why I Call it a Task Farce": Organizations and Participation in the Colorado Roadless Rule." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(4): 456-474.	Power differentials among organizations and individuals have long been noted in traditional public participation processes, with particular shortfalls being noted in structure. In response to command-and-control tactics, scholars have called for a more innovative and collaborative form of participation. In this manuscript we critically examine structure and discourse within environmental decision-making, focusing on one case that employed traditional and innovative forms of participation. Through our analysis we find that participation, even innovative, seemingly collaborative forms, is occupied by powerful and more organized groups. Our analysis highlights how certain organizations successfully manage power within these innovative forms of participation and the dialectical tensions among structure and discourse which constitute partisanship in policy processes seemingly designed to facilitate public interests. We also highlight the relationship between representatives, organizations, and interests within environmental decision-making.

Smith, J. (2005). "Dangerous news: Media decision making about climate change risk." Risk Analysis 25(6): 1471-1482.	This article explores the role of broadcast news media decisionmakers in shaping public understanding and debate of climate change risks. It locates the media within a "tangled web" of communication and debate between sources, media, and publics. The article draws on new qualitative research in the British context. The main body of it focuses on media source strategies, on climate change storytelling in news, and the "myth of detachment" sustained by many news decisionmakers. The empirical evidence, gathered between 1997 and 2004, is derived primarily from recordings and notes drawn from a series of seminars that has brought together equal numbers of BBC news and television decisionmakers and environment/development specialists. The seminars have created a rare space for extended dialogue between media and specialist perspectives on the communication of complex climate change science and policy. While the article acknowledges the distinctive nature of the BBC as a public sector broadcaster, the evidence confirms and extends current understanding of the career of climate change within the media more broadly. The working group discussions have explored issues arising out of how stories are sourced and, in the context of competitive and time-pressured newsrooms, shaped and presented in short news pieces. Particularly significant is the disjuncture between ways of talking about uncertainty within science and policy discourse and media constructions of objectivity, truth, and balance. The article concludes with a summary of developments in media culture, technology, and practice that are creating opportunities for enhanced public understanding and debate of climate change risks. It also indicates the need for science and policy communities to be more active critics and sources of news.

Smith, K. C., et al. (2010). "Getting Cancer Research Into the News: A Communication Case Study Centered on One US Comprehensive Cancer Center." Science Communication 32(2): 202-231.	Public dissemination of research findings via the news media has become an important part of the scientific process. The dissemination of complex topics such as cancer has proven somewhat problematic in that news coverage is often judged as compounding, rather than alleviating, communication difficulties. This case study centers around one comprehensive cancer center (CCC) and examines communication stakeholders' objectives in producing news coverage of cancer issues. The authors' analysis adopts a constructionist perspective of news making, emphasizing actors' power to shape news coverage rather than conceptualizing news as a public record of objectively newsworthy events. The authors' data suggest widespread support for media communication of scientific findings but little articulation of definitive communication goals. It is concluded that without clear articulation of shared goals, communication efforts cannot effectively enhance public empowerment or effectively promote cancer prevention.

Smith, L. F., et al. (2011). "Aesthetics and Astronomy: Studying the Public's Perception and Understanding of Imagery From Space." Science Communication 33(2): 201-238.	This study examined the scientific understanding of astronomical pictures by experts and nonexperts. It explored how both groups perceive astronomical images and their understanding of both what they are seeing and the science that underlies the images. Data comprised n = 8,866 responses from a survey linked to the NASA Astronomical Picture of the Day website and four focus groups held at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. Results indicated that variations in presentation of color, explanation, and scale affect comprehension of astronomical imagery. With those who are more expert, shorter, more technical explanations are effective; however, scales are still necessary for complete comprehension. Experts tend to look at the images from a more scientific, data-oriented perspective while nonexperts are more likely to focus, especially initially, on the aesthetic or emotional values of the images. Results provide suggestions for educational outreach to the public.

Smith, N. and H. Joffe (2013). "How the public engages with global warming: A social representations approach." Public Understanding of Science 22(1): 16-32.	The present study utilises social representations theory to explore common sense conceptualisations of global warming risk using an in-depth, qualitative methodology. Fifty-six members of a British, London-based 2008 public were initially asked to draw or write four spontaneous "first thoughts or feelings" about global warming. These were then explored via an open-ended, exploratory interview. The analysis revealed that first thoughts, either drawn or written, often mirrored the images used by the British press to depict global warming visually. Thus in terms of media framings, it was their visual rather than their textual content that was spontaneously available for their audiences. Furthermore, an in-depth exploration of interview data revealed that global warming was structured around three themata: self/other, natural/unnatural and certainty/uncertainty, reflecting the complex and often contradictory nature of common sense thinking in relation to risk issues.

Smith, N. and A. Leiserowitz (2014). "The Role of Emotion in Global Warming Policy Support and Opposition." Risk Analysis 34(5): 937-948.	Prior research has found that affect and affective imagery strongly influence public support for global warming. This article extends this literature by exploring the separate influence of discrete emotions. Utilizing a nationally representative survey in the United States, this study found that discrete emotions were stronger predictors of global warming policy support than cultural worldviews, negative affect, image associations, or sociodemographic variables. In particular, worry, interest, and hope were strongly associated with increased policy support. The results contribute to experiential theories of risk information processing and suggest that discrete emotions play a significant role in public support for climate change policy. Implications for climate change communication are also discussed.

Smith, N. W. (2007). "Climate change begins at home: Life on the two-way street of global warming." Public Understanding of Science 16(1): 112-113.
	
Smith, P. J. (1996). "International patterns of intellectual property protection and commodity trade - An economic perspective." Science Communication 17(3): 357-378.	This article provides an economic perspective on the cross-country patterns of intellectual property protection and commodity trade and the linkages between these patterns. The objectives are to describe the characteristics of countries in relation to the strength of their intellectual property protection and to describe the relationship between the strength of country protection of intellectual property and U.S. exports to these countries An economic framework for thinking about these relationships is provided and data are examined for their consistency with the economic interpretations. Findings show that country protection of intellectual property is positively related to the level of country development and that U.S. bilateral exports are positively related to the strength of intellectual property protection in the recipient importing country.

Smith-Patten, B. D., et al. (2015). "Is extinction forever?" Public Understanding of Science 24(4): 481-495.	Mistrust of science has seeped into public perception of the most fundamental aspect of conservationextinction. The term ought to be straightforward, and yet, there is a disconnect between scientific discussion and public views. This is not a mere semantic issue, rather one of communication. Within a population dynamics context, we say that a species went locally extinct, later to document its return. Conveying our findings matters, for when we use local extinction, an essentially nonsensical phrase, rather than extirpation, which is what is meant, then we contribute to, if not create outright, a problem for public understanding of conservation, particularly as local extinction is often shortened to extinction in media sources. The public that receives the message of our research void of context and modifiers comes away with the idea that extinction is not forever or, worse for conservation as a whole, that an extinction crisis has been invented.

Snary, C. (2002). "Health risk assessment for planned waste incinerators: Getting the right science and the science right." Risk Analysis 22(6): 1095-1105.	Health risk assessment is widely advocated in the United Kingdom as the most comprehensive means of assessing the health risks posed by the emissions of a planned waste incinerator. Its main advantage over other methods of assessment, such as air quality impact assessment, is its ability to address explicitly the direct (inhalation) and indirect (ingestion and dermal contact) health risks posed by different chemicals, including those that are not thought to have a threshold below which no adverse effect will take place. This article examines the level and quality of the emissions assessments included in 61 waste incinerator environmental statements (ESs); in particular, it focuses on :he quality of the exposure assessment and risk characterization stages of the health risk assessment process. The article concludes that the ES has not always provided interested stakeholders with the best available information upon which to determine the tolerability of the health risks posed by waste incinerator emissions. Some recommendations are made as to how this problem might be addressed in future environmental impact assessment (EIA) processes.

Song, H., et al. (2018). "Source Effects on Psychological Reactance to Regulatory Policies: The Role of Trust and Similarity." Science Communication 40(5): 591-620.	Efforts to communicate risk reduction policies must consider how target audiences will respond to the source of the message. This study investigates how modifying the message source enhances or diminishes psychological reactance against a policy designed to curb a wildlife disease. In an experimental study, we attributed a press release announcing this policy to different sources. We found that the source had an indirect effect on reactance, which subsequently affected attitudes toward the policy and behavioral intentions. Specifically, the more similar and trustworthy participants perceived the source, the less likely the source was to induce freedom threat or reactance.

Song, H. and J. P. Schuldt (2017). "Communicating Conservation Status: How Different Statistical Assessment Criteria Affect Perceptions of Extinction Risk." Risk Analysis 37(9): 1706-1715.	Although alternative forms of statistical and verbal information are routinely used to convey species' extinction risk to policymakers and the public, little is known about their effects on audience information processing and risk perceptions. To address this gap in literature, we report on an experiment that was designed to explore how perceptions of extinction risk differ as a function of five different assessment benchmarks (Criteria A-E) used by scientists to classify species within IUCN Red List risk levels (e.g., Critically Endangered, Vulnerable), as well as the role of key individual differences in these effects (e.g., rational and experiential thinking styles, environmental concern). Despite their normative equivalence within the IUCN classification system, results revealed divergent effects of specific assessment criteria: on average, describing extinction risk in terms of proportional population decline over time (Criterion A) and number of remaining individuals (Criterion D) evoked the highest level of perceived risk, whereas the single-event probability of a species becoming extinct (Criterion E) engendered the least perceived risk. Furthermore, participants scoring high in rationality (analytic thinking) were less prone to exhibit these biases compared to those low in rationality. Our findings suggest that despite their equivalence in the eyes of scientific experts, IUCN criteria are indeed capable of engendering different levels of risk perception among lay audiences, effects that carry direct and important implications for those tasked with communicating about conservation status to diverse publics.

Song, J., et al. (2013). "How to compare the social foundations of science culture: A trial with five cities in Korea." Public Understanding of Science 22(1): 110-121.	Though there have been several indicator systems to monitor the status quo of science and technology and of scientific literacy, few are especially designed for science culture, especially for its social dimension. Furthermore there is little agreement on how to measure it. In a previous study, an indicator system, SCI (Science Culture Indicators), had been developed to monitor the status quo of the science culture of a nation at both individual and social dimensions. The purpose of this study was to explore a practical way to measure and compare local cities' social foundation of science culture by revising and standardizing the social dimension of SCI and by applying it to five metropolitan cities in Korea. Despite some limits, the results of this study appear not only to reflect the cities' current situations but also to show the strength and weakness of their social foundation of science culture.

Sonnett, J. (2010). "Climates of risk: A field analysis of global climate change in US media discourse, 1997-2004." Public Understanding of Science 19(6): 698-716.	How are industry and environmentalist discourses of climate risk related to dominant scientific and political discourses? This study operationalizes Bourdieu's concept of symbolic capital in order to map dimensions of risk description and prescription onto a journalistic field of industry, environmentalist, scientific, and political media. Results show that conventional definitions of risk mirror an opposition between scientific and political discourses. Prescriptions for action on risk are partly autonomous from definitions however. Environmentalist and scientific media feature more proactive discourse, and industry and political media feature more reactive discourse. Implications for future research on climate risk and relational studies of media discourse are discussed.

Sovacool, B. K. (2008). "Spheres of Argument Concerning Oil Exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge: A Crisis of Environmental Rhetoric?" Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(3): 340-361.	Rhetorical theorists have frequently attacked the rhetoric of science for relying on expertise, perpetuating a gendered bias, and being used to intentionally manipulate the public. Yet while connections between the rise of scientific rhetoric and the erosion of public knowledge may sound reasonable to the casual observer, the approach taken in this manuscript traces the unintended consequences of lay-expertise on environmental activism and public policy. This essay analyzes two different categories of pro-environmental rhetoric used by actors concerned with preventing oil and natural gas exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). By examining the public controversy over ANWR, this essay asks: how are technical versus public claims in the debate over ANWR formed? What standards of evidence are required? What does this reveal about the rhetorical strategies used by those concerned with protecting the environment, both in ANWR and as a whole? What does it also disclose about the media and nature of modern public discourse? In doing so, the essay focuses on the importance of science and scientific rhetoric in establishing a sound basis for both public activism and environmental journalism.

Sowards, S. K. (2012). "Environmental Justice in International Contexts: Understanding Intersections for Social Justice in the Twenty-First Century INTRODUCTION." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(3): 285-289.
	
Sowards, S. K. (2012). "Expectations, Experiences, and Memories: Ecotourism and the Possibilities for Transformations." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(2): 175-192.	This essay explores how ecotourism destinations and media materials rhetorically construct ecotourists' anticipations, experiences, and memories through ethnographic and rhetorical analyses. Using theory related to phenomenology, this study examines how expectations are formed through rhetorical tropes such as the sublime, the exotic, and the dangerous adventure. In turn, these expectations direct attentions towards specific experiences and memories. However, because ecotourism activities become critical experiences with other natural and social worlds that supersede everyday practices, these events have the potential to foster critical awareness of self, other, the natural world, and practices related to traveling, shaping the environmental self and identity.

Spack, J. A., et al. (2012). "It's Easy Being Green: The Effects of Argument and Imagery on Consumer Responses to Green Product Packaging." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(4): 441-458.	To assess how claims of green advertising influence consumers, this study examined whether argument strength and imagery used in environmental claims on product packaging affected participants' perceptions of the claims' credibility, perceptions of the products' greenness, attitudes toward the product, purchasing intent, and general attitudes toward green product advertising. A 3 (Argument: No argument, Weak, or Strong)x2 (Image: Present or Absent) factorial experiment was conducted by varying product packaging on a bottle of laundry detergent. While argument strength influenced perceptions of credibility, product greenness, and attitudes, a weak argument was as effective as a strong argument in eliciting purchasing intent. Similarly, the presence of a green seal image influenced purchasing intent regardless of argument strength. These results suggest that though consumers are able to evaluate the quality of green arguments, the mere presence of any green cue affects purchasing intent regardless of format, modality, or quality.

Sparks, P. and R. Shepherd (1994). "Public Perceptions of the Potential Hazards Associated with Food-Production and Food-Consumption - an Empirical-Study." Risk Analysis 14(5): 799-806.	Although public perceptions of food-related hazards receive much media comment and debate, the research literature on such perceptions is sparse and piecemeal.  In the reported study, 216 people completed a questionnaire relating to their perceptions of the ''risk characteristics'' of potential hazards associated with various aspects of food production and food consumption.  Responses were examined via principal-components analysis to obtain a structural representation of risk perception of the kind provided by Fischhoff, Slovic, and their colleagues in their seminal psychometric work.(1,2)  A three-component solution accounting for 87% of the variance was obtained, with the dimensions labeled as ''severity,'' ''unknown,'' and ''number of people exposed.''  The findings also yielded information pointing to evidence of the phenomenon of unrealistic optimism.  We conclude that our findings offer a useful base upon which further in-depth research integrating different perspectives on risk perception with respect to food-related hazards may be developed.

Spartz, J. T., et al. (2017). "YouTube, Social Norms and Perceived Salience of Climate Change in the American Mind." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(1): 1-16.	This online experiment explored how contextual information embedded in new media channels such as YouTube may serve as normative social cues to users. Specifically, we examined whether the number of views listed under a YouTube video about climate change would elicit inferences regarding how others feel about the climate issue and, consequently, might influence perceptions of issue salience. Participants in this experiment were exposed to a YouTube video about climate change using two experimental conditions, one providing a small number of views under the video and the second listing a large number of views. Results suggest that the number of views cue did, indeed, influence participant perceptions of the importance assigned by other Americans to the issue of climate change. Further, compared to low self-monitoring participants, high self-monitoring participants registered an increase in their own judgment of issue importance.

Spence, A., et al. (2012). "The Psychological Distance of Climate Change." Risk Analysis 32(6): 957-972.	Avoiding dangerous climate change is one of the most urgent social risk issues we face today and understanding related public perceptions is critical to engaging the public with the major societal transformations required to combat climate change. Analyses of public perceptions have indicated that climate change is perceived as distant on a number of different dimensions. However, to date there has been no in-depth exploration of the psychological distance of climate change. This study uses a nationally representative British sample in order to systematically explore and characterize each of the four theorized dimensions of psychological distancetemporal, social, and geographical distance, and uncertaintyin relation to climate change. We examine how each of these different aspects of psychological distance relate to each other as well as to concerns about climate change and sustainable behavior intentions. Results indicate that climate change is both psychologically distant and proximal in relation to different dimensions. Lower psychological distance was generally associated with higher levels of concern, although perceived impacts on developing countries, as an indicator of social distance, was also significantly related to preparedness to act on climate change. Our findings clearly point to the utility of risk communication techniques designed to reduce psychological distance. However, highlighting the potentially very serious distant impacts of climate change may also be useful in promoting sustainable behavior, even among those already concerned.

Spence, P. R., et al. (2017). "Exemplification effects: responses to perceptions of risk." Journal of Risk Research 20(5): 590-610.	Exemplification theory asserts that message components that are iconic and emotionally arousing are easily accessed, and are therefore relied upon when making subsequent behavioral decisions. A reanalysis of data from three studies collected at different times, unrelated experimental stimuli (terrorism, food ingredients, and bed bugs), different media (visual and print), varying geographic locations, different experimental conditions (laboratory and online), and diverse participants suggests that these processes work differently for men and women. Results suggest that the medium through which an exemplar is presented and/ or experienced may be fairly inconsequential, but there are underlying processes which may determine the extent to which individuals will modify behavioral intentions related to risks. After witnessing exemplified portrayals, women were more likely than men to express a desire to modify behavior, perceive themselves as more susceptible to the risk, and perceive the risk as being more severe across the studies. The findings are discussed in terms of directions for future research and implications for risk communication practitioners.

Spencer, N. and D. Alexander (2012). "The Theos/ComRes survey into public perception of Darwinism in the UK: A recipe for confusion Response." Public Understanding of Science 21(3): 294-296.
	
Spier, R. (2007). "The cutter incident: How America's first polio vaccine led to the growing vaccine crisis." Science Communication 29(1): 134-135.
	
Spiller, J. (2004). "Re-imagining United States Antarctic research as a defining endeavor of a deserving world leader: 1957-1991." Public Understanding of Science 13(1): 31-53.	Touching on the modern politics of Antarctica and the shifting interests that the USA and people of other nations had in that continent, this paper examines the imprint of politics and culture on US public discourse about the US Antarctic research program. It argues that US government officials, scientists, and mass media responded to one another, evolving cultural values, and these dynamic politics and interests by changing the way they depicted scientific exploration in Antarctica. Initially treating this exploration as a manly attempt to know the world and conquer its last uninhabited continent, these pundits came to regard Antarctic science as a means of protecting an endangered continental wilderness, while using it to study humanity's most pressing environmental crises. In doing so, however, they clung to an unchanging discourse celebrating US Antarctic research as proof of the benevolent world leadership by the USA, of its unstinting desire to advance peace, security, and prosperity for all humanity.

Spoel, P. (2018). "Preserving Wilderness or Protecting Homelands? Intersections and Divergences in Activist Discourses About Mining in Ontario's Far North." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(3): 295-300.	Northern Ontario's Ring of Fire/Wawangajing controversy constitutes a complex site of debate about the risks and benefits of mining in an area of major ecological significance that is also the ancestral territory of nine First Nation communities. This paper investigates the rhetorical alignments and divergences in public calls by Matawa First Nations tribal council and the Ontario Wildlands League for stronger environmental assessment of mining projects than that favoured by the Canadian government. Tracing the terminologies each group uses to describe the affected region and its inhabitants in its activist rhetoric about EA offers insight into the contingent, shifting ways in which wilderness advocacy and Indigenous justice discourses may speak together yet distinctly within contemporary environmental-natural resource disputes.

Spoel, P. and R. C. Den Hoed (2014). "Places and People: Rhetorical Constructions of "Community" in a Canadian Environmental Risk Assessment." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(3): 267-285.	This paper addresses the issue of public engagement in environmental risk contexts through a rhetorical analysis of the key term "community" in a risk assessment of mining-caused soil contamination. Drawing on Burke's concept of terministic screens and method of cluster criticism, the analysis shows the divergent constitutions of "community" in the Sudbury Soils Study's official discourse and the citizen-activist rhetoric of the Community Committee on the Sudbury Soils Study. Tracing the verbal and visual clusters within each organization's articulation of "community" as place and people reveals how the official Study's technical-regulatory ideology of environmental risk and citizen participation is countered by the Community Committee's contestatory environmental justice ideology. These competing views of "community" are mutually constitutive in that the official Study's mainstream risk discourse establishes the terms for the Community Committee's reactive counter-discourse, thus limiting citizen participation mainly to questions of "downstream" impacts. Our rhetorical analysis of "community" suggests a generative method for understanding the complex power relations animating specific risk communication contexts as well as for potentially reinventing "community" in terms more conducive to meaningful citizen engagement.

Sprain, L. and L. Reinig (2018). "Citizens Speaking as Experts: Expertise Discourse in Deliberative Forums." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(3): 357-369.	By analysing how participants use expertise discourse during environmental forums, this study examines how expert and lay knowledge are infused in deliberative democracy and the necessary distinctions between ways of knowing within deliberative epistemology. Through Grounded Practical Theory and Communication as Design, we analyse how expertise discourse contributes to and might undermine democratic deliberation through empirical analysis of transcripts from environmental forums in the United States. Our analysis describes three forms of expertise discourse used by participants within deliberative forums: institutional expertise, local expertise, and issue expertise. Expertise discourse is co-produced between participants, contributes to the information base, and most frequently comes in the form of institutional expertise. This discourse practice poses two problems for deliberative democracy: participants presenting information as an evident solution, and expertise discourse creating hierarchies that foreclose participation. We offer design recommendations for how to manage these problems within environmental forums.

Sprain, L. and W. M. Timpson (2012). "Pedagogy for Sustainability Science: Case-Based Approaches for Interdisciplinary Instruction." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(4): 532-550.	Sustainability science represents a fundamental shift in the nature of research on environmental problems, calling for specialists to expand beyond their disciplinary perspectives in order to cooperate together to understand and address systemic problems. This shift demands a corresponding shift in education in order to equip students with the skills, theories, and methods they need to address contemporary challenges. We argue that case studies are a productive pedagogical approach to teaching about sustainability and teaching for sustainability. Case-based approaches equip students to encounter complexity, manage uncertainty, and generate innovative strategies. In laying out of the pedagogical challenges inherent in sustainability education, we highlight opportunities and demands for environmental communication scholars to contribute to the emerging discipline of sustainability science.

Sprecker, K. (2002). "How involvement, citation style, and funding source affect the credibility of university scientists." Science Communication 24(1): 72-97.	Many factors influence public perception of university scientists as credible sources of environmental news. This study looks at three of them: the scientist's funding source, the citation style, and participant involvement. In a 2 x 2 x 3 mixed-subjects factorial design, participants read newspaper articles and rated the credibility of the scientists identified therein. No main effects occurred for funding source or for citation style. A main effect occurred for involvement, but not as predicted: those highly involved rated the scientists as more credible than those less involved. No interactions occurred. Reasons for these inconclusive but still informative results are explored.

Spurlock, C. M. (2010). "For God and Country? A Critical Re/Vision of America's Best Idea." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(4): 494-500.	This paper offers a brief comment/analysis of an abridged version of America's Best Idea that was produced and distributed by Earth Ministry (with WETA's approval). There were two versions (one for Christian audiences and the other for "everyone else," i.e. interfaith) that were distributed, along with a study guide, that use Ken Burns' film to teach about/endorse creation care. This paper discusses the ways in which the film is edited to highlight its already salient "God and country" themes and to suggest that this version of the film should prompt critics to reconsider the entirety of (the original) America's Best Idea as a more complex statement of faith/nationalism and to consider the extent to which both of these films suggest a privatized, personal environmental agenda. In other words, the broader discourses of creation care threaten to move environmental concerns out of the realm of policy/public/governance (unless articulated publicly to faith-based justifications) and into the realm of the individual's relationship with God first...and others (family, community, nation, world, and various assemblages, i.e. capitalism) second.

Spurlock, C. M. and D. Pfister (2012). "Considering the Prospects of Immediate Resistance in Food Politics: Reflections on The Garden (vol 5, pg 350, 2011)." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(1): 137-138.
	
Srinivas, K. R. (2016). "Biohackers: The Politics of Open Science." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 1021-1022.
	
Stallen, P. J. and R. Coppock (1987). "About Risk Communication and Risky Communication." Risk Analysis 7(4): 413-414.
	
Stamm, K. R., et al. (2000). "Mass communication and public understanding of environmental problems: the case of global warming." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 219-237.	Public understanding of global warming, also known as global climate change, is treated here as an example of a mass communication problem that has yet to be adequately solved. A survey of metropolitan area residents found that although people are aware of this problem in a general sense, understanding of particular causes, possible consequences, and solutions is more Limited. Both mass media and interpersonal communication appear to make a positive contribution to understanding, as well as to perpetuating some popular misconceptions.

Stamou, A. G., et al. (2009). "The Discourse of Environmental Information Representations of Nature and Forms of Rhetoric in the Information Center of a Greek Reserve." Science Communication 31(2): 187-214.	In the present study, the textual material disseminated in the information center of Dadia forest reserve is examined. Adopting the theoretical framework of Critical Discourse Analysis, environmental information is seen as "discourse." By employing a two-plane analytical framework (content analysis and systemic-functional linguistic analysis), the focus given on scientific rhetoric is unveiled. Consequently, the management regime proposed for the forest reserve removes the local community, constructing science (as represented by WWF [World Wide Fund for Nature] Greece's scientific staff) as the only legitimate voice to speak about and manage the forest. Moreover, the systematic suppression of human interventions blurs and diffuses responsibilities for the environment.

Star, S. L. (2008). "Freud's wizard: The enigma of Ernest Jones." Science Communication 29(4): 532-534.
	
Stave, C., et al. (2008). "Risk and safety communication in small enterprises - how to support a lasting change towards work safety priority." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 195-206.	The frequency of occupational accidents in Swedish farming is high. An intervention methodology aimed at influencing safety attitudes and behaviour was previously tested. The aims of the present study were to evaluate long-term effects of the intervention and to assess these results in relation to a randomly selected comparison group.
The intervention was based on regular group discussions, focusing on dialogue and reflection in networks for social support. Eighty-eight farmers and farm workers, divided into nine groups, participated. Each group gathered on seven occasions during one year, assisted by a process consultant, supporting safety communication and the change process. A questionnaire was used to evaluate the effects. The long-term results of the intervention showed that safety activity increased significantly and risk acceptance (fearlessness) and work stress decreased. Measurements were made at T1, T2 and T3, i.e., pre-, post- and long-term, in the intervention group and at T1 and T3 in the comparison group.
The results of the present study showed a long-term effect of the intervention on safety activity and risk acceptance (fearlessness) in relation to the comparison group. However, the comparison group also showed a decline in work stress, which indicates that the stress reduction may have had other causes than the intervention.

Steel, B. S., et al. (2006). "Ideology and scientific credibility: environmental policy in the American Pacific Northwest." Public Understanding of Science 15(4): 481-495.	In the later years of the twentieth century and into the twenty-first century, there has been an increasing emphasis among many decision-makers, interest groups, and citizens about the importance of science-based environmental policy. The assumption is that scientists can facilitate the resolution of public environmental decisions by providing scientific information to policymakers and the public, and by becoming more directly involved in policy arenas than they have traditionally been. However, at the same time, there are those who question the value of science, especially for ideological reasons. This study empirically examines the impact of ideology on attitudes toward science, scientific research, and scientists among various environmental policy participants. The data utilized to investigate these orientations were collected from surveys of five different groups involved in environmental policy and management in the Pacific Northwest including ecological scientists at universities and federal agencies; natural resource and environmental managers of state and federal programs; members of interest groups (e.g., environmental groups, industry associations, etc.); the "attentive public" (i.e., citizens who have participated in the environmental policy process); and the general public. Preliminary results reveal significant differences between liberals and conservatives in their orientations toward science, with self-identified liberals generally more likely to see science and scientists as objective and conservatives having a contrary view.

Steger, T. and A. Drehobl (2018). "The Anti-Fracking Movement in Ireland: Perspectives from the Media and Activists." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(3): 344-356.	This article explores social mobilization in the controversy over hydraulic fracturing (i.e. fracking) in Ireland from the perspectives of agenda setting in national and local Irish newspapers as well as framing by anti-fracking activists and journalists. We analysed all articles referencing hydraulic fracturing (and related terms) from 11 Irish national newspapers and 128 Irish local newspapers from April 2013 to April 2014, and interviewed 19 journalists, activists, and government officials affiliated with fracking issues in Ireland. Based on the analytical salience and resonance across prominent empirical themes in conjunction with theoretical insights, we conclude that social mobilization against fracking in Ireland is challenged by a frame war on the credibility of activists, diverse economic interests across national and local scales, and the need for procedural legitimacy in the contribution of science. In conclusion, this research demonstrates the importance of agenda setting and framing in structuring the capacity for social mobilization.

Steinhardt, J. and M. A. Shapiro (2015). "Framing Effects in Narrative and Non-Narrative Risk Messages." Risk Analysis 35(8): 1423-1436.	Narrative messages are increasingly popular in health and risk campaigns, yet gain/loss framing effects have never been tested with such messages. Three experiments examined framing in narrative messages. Experiment 1 found that only the character's decision, not framing, influenced judgments about characters in a narrative derived from a prospect theory context. Experiment 2 found that a framing effect that occurred when presented in a decision format did not occur when the same situation was presented as a narrative. Using a different story/decision context, Experiment 3 found no significant difference in preference for surgery over radiation therapy in a narrative presentation compared to a non-narrative presentation. The results suggest that health and risk campaigns cannot assume that framing effects will be the same in narrative messages and non-narrative messages. Potential reasons for these differences and suggestions for future research are discussed.

Steinke, J. (1995). "Reaching Readers - Assessing Readers Impressions of Science News." Science Communication 16(4): 432-453.	Although most people rely on the mass media to translate the abstract principles and technical jargon of scientific research into comprehensible information they can use to make informed decisions about their lives and about science policy, there is little research examining people's impressions of newspaper reports on science and how these impressions influence their reading of science news. This study used think-aloud protocols to examine the responses of a small group of readers to two newspaper science articles. Results indicate that readers may be most concerned about their ability to understand the articles and their interest in an article's subject. When readers encountered information they could not comprehend, they used a number of reading strategies, such as rephrasing, questioning and acknowledging a lack of prior knowledge. These responses illustrate how individual predispositions, social affiliations, and information processing abilities can influence impressions of science news.

Steinke, J. (1997). "A portrait of a woman as a scientist: breaking down barriers created by gender-role stereotypes." Public Understanding of Science 6(4): 409-428.	Educational, attitudinal, and sociocultural factors create barriers that prevent girls and young women from pursuing opportunities in science. Of these barriers, gender-role stereotypes of science have been cited as a significant obstacle. This research analyses a US television series that counters gender-role stereotypes of science. The analysis found the images presented on this series challenge previously reported stereotypes of women scientists shown in the US media by emphasizing the expertise of women scientists, showing alternatives for balancing the demands of their professional and personal lives, and providing examples of role models who have succeeded in male-dominated fields. The significance of these results are discussed in light of gender schema theory and the need for future research on the effects of women scientist role models on girls' and young women's interest in science.

Steinke, J. (1999). "Women scientist rob models on screen - A case study of contact." Science Communication 21(2): 111-136.	In the absence of real-life role models, children may construct an understanding of the role of women in science based largely on images of women scientists they see in the media. This study assesses the images used in the portrayal of a female astronomer in the film, Contact. The themes used as a framework for the analysis were early encouragement in science, professional status, professional reputation, professional relationships, and impact of personal relationships on career goals. The film's portrayal of a woman scientist is discussed in light of empirical data and anecdotal reports on the actual experiences of women scientists.

Steinke, J. (2004). "Science in cyberspace: science and engineering World Wide Web sites for girls." Public Understanding of Science 13(1): 7-30.	In the absence of real-life role models, images of women scientists and engineers on the World Wide Web can be important sources of information about women in science, engineering, and technology. This study analyzed the content of 27 science and engineering Web sites for girls and examined recurring themes in 168 of the biographies of women scientists and engineers found on these sites. Most of the Web sites included information about scientific, engineering, and technological disciplines and presented occupational information-information shown to be important for increasing girls' interest in these areas. The biographies of women scientists and engineers found on these Web sites addressed issues concerning parental attitudes, acceptance by male colleagues, and family-friendly policies in workplaces-issues shown to be related to girls' future interest in careers in science, engineering, and technology. By providing detailed information about the experiences and personal lives of women scientists and engineers, the biographies on these Web sites may be useful in countering existing cultural stereotypes of women scientists and engineers and initiating changes in perceptions needed to narrow the gender gap in science, engineering, and technology.

Steinke, J. (2005). "Cultural representations of gender and science." Science Communication 27(1): 27-63.	Images of female scientists and engineers in popular films convey cultural and social assumptions about the role of women in science, engineering, and technology (SET). This study analyzed cultural representations of gender conveyed through images of female scientists and engineers in popular films from 1991 to 2001. While many of these depictions of female scientists and engineers emphasized their appearance and focused on romance, most depictions also presented female scientists and engineers in professional positions of high status. Other images that showed the female scientists and engineers' interactions with male colleagues, however reinforced traditional social and cultural assumptions about the role of women in SET through overt and subtle forms of stereotyping. This article explores the significance of these findings for developing programs to change girls' perceptions of scientists and engineers and attitudes toward SET careers.

Steinke, J. (2007). "Cause of death: Forensic files of a medical examiner." Science Communication 29(2): 275-278.
	
Steinke, J. (2009). "Girls in Science: A Framework for Action." Science Communication 31(2): 275-277.
	
Steinke, J., et al. (2012). "Gender Differences in Adolescents' Wishful Identification With Scientist Characters on Television." Science Communication 34(2): 163-199.	Adolescents' wishful identification with televised scientist characters was examined as related to interactions among the following variables: gender of participant, gender of scientist character, program genre, and selected character attributes. Findings indicated some gender differences in adolescents' wishful identification with scientist characters they viewed on television. Boys showed more wishful identification with male scientist than with female scientist characters for all character attributes, and girls showed more wishful identification with female scientist than with male scientist characters portrayed dominant or as working alone. Both girls and boys showed more wishful identification with scientist characters in drama programs than for those in cartoon and educational programs across all character attributes. Both girls and boys showed more wishful identification for some character attributes depending on the program genre viewed. Implications of these findings for producers of television programs and other media are discussed related to efforts to encourage adolescent girls' interest in science careers.

Steinke, J., et al. (2007). "Assessing media influences on middle school-aged children's perceptions of women in science using the Draw-A-Scientist Test (DAST)." Science Communication 29(1): 35-64.	Gender stereotypes in the mass media perpetuate traditional views of women that may influence children's perceptions of women in science, engineering, and technology. This study used a randomized posttest-only control group design to determine the efficacy of media literacy training on middle school-aged children's perceptions of scientists. Participants were randomly assigned to one of three conditions: discussion, discussion plus viewing of television and film clips that featured images of women, or a control. A total of 304 seventh-grade students were asked to complete the Draw-A-Scientist Test and to write down the source of information for their drawings. Across conditions, boys were more likely than girls to draw male scientists, and girls were more likely than boys to draw female scientists. Boys also were more likely to depict other stereotypes of scientists. Media sources were listed as the primary source of information for the drawings.

Steinke, J. and M. Long (1996). "A lab of her own? Portrayals of female characters on children's educational science programs." Science Communication 18(2): 91-115.	Television teaches children gender-specific behaviors, attitudes and characteristics. By observing male and female characters on television, children learn to label certain characteristics and behaviors as masculine or feminine andro assign traditional gender-role stereotypes to careers. This study examines the portrayals of female characters on four popular television series for children and discusses those portrayals in the light of other research on television and socialization. The study found that over twice as many male characters as female characters and twice as many male scientists as female scientists were shown these series. Females were most often seen as pupils or apprentices, laboratory assistants, or science reporters, and less often as expert scientists. Of the 86 females appearing in these programs 68 were portrayed in secondary roles as students or laboratory assistants.

Stekolschik, G., et al. (2010). "Does the public communication of science influence scientific vocation? Results of a national survey." Public Understanding of Science 19(5): 625-637.	The purpose of this work was to determine if public communication of science and technology (PCST) has any influence on people's decision to become dedicated to scientific research. For this reason, a national survey involving 852 researchers from all disciplines was conducted in Argentina. The results showed that the factors affecting scientific vocation are many, and that, regardless of differences in gender, age or discipline, the greatest influence on the decision to go into scientific research is exerted by teachers. The analysis also demonstrated that different manifestations of PCST (science books, press articles, audiovisual material, and activities such as visits to science museums) play a significant role in awakening the vocation for science. From these results it may be stated that PCST-in addition to its function of informing and forming citizens-exerts a significant influence in fostering scientific vocation.

Stenhouse, N. (2017). "Spreading Success Beyond the Laboratory: Applying the RE-AIM Framework for Effective Environmental Communication Interventions at Scale." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(6): 756-768.	The RE-AIM framework, created by Russell Glasgow and colleagues, addresses five major factors involved with sustained population-level effectiveness of public health interventionsReach, Efficacy and/or Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation and Maintenance. In this article, I illustrate how the framework might be applied to environmental communication interventions, and discuss how the framework needs to be adapted to important aspects of this context. Following that, I address several potential criticisms of RE-AIM or its usefulness for environmental communication scholars. Finally, I discuss how research practices of environmental communication scholars could be changed in light of the insights given by the RE-AIM framework. Much work remains to be done in order to see exactly how RE-AIM, or other frameworks focused on large-scale intervention effectiveness, can be made most useful to environmental communication scholars. However, RE-AIM already provides a valuable way to start thinking about how to best improve large-scale effectiveness of communication interventions.

Stephens, J. C., et al. (2009). "Wind Energy in US Media: A Comparative State-Level Analysis of a Critical Climate Change Mitigation Technology." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(2): 168-190.	Wind power is a critically important climate change mitigation technology, and the most rapidly growing renewable energy technology in the USA. Wind energy can provide carbon-free electricity generation, so within societal discourse on how society should minimize the risks of climate change it is widely recognized and acknowledged as a valuable technology. Despite recent increases in wind turbine installation in the USA, the high-level of variation in deployment patterns of wind technology in different states cannot be explained simply by wind resource patterns. Other factors, including differences in the state-level, socio-political context, seem to be influencing wind development. This research compares these contextual differences by using media analysis to assess state-level public discourse about wind technology. Through comparative content and frame analysis of newspaper coverage of wind power in Texas, Minnesota, and Massachusetts, we explore state-level variations in the salience of wind in public discourse, the focus on wind power as a climate change mitigating technology, and the framing of wind power's risks and benefits. In addition to identifying distinct state-level variation in wind energy discourse, the results demonstrate that wind's climate change mitigation potential has been a limited but growing part of media coverage on wind power.

Stephens, L. F. (2005). "News narratives about nano S&T in major US and non-US newspapers." Science Communication 27(2): 175-199.	The author of this content analytic study, examines news narratives about nano science and technology (nano S&T) in major U.S. and non-U.S. newspapers by, taking a random sample of 350 articles published from 1988 through mid-July 2004 from a universe of 1,330 articles. In addition to identifying dominant frames or content themes, the author evaluates whether there is a dominant tone or sentiment regarding the ethical, legal, and societal implications of developments and issues in nano S&T Scientific discoveries or projects and the social effects of nano S&T are the dominant frames. The ratio of articles leaning toward the sentiment that benefits outweigh risks versus that risks outweigh benefits is three to one.

Stephens, S. H., et al. (2014). "An Analysis of the Narrative-Building Features of Interactive Sea Level Rise Viewers." Science Communication 36(6): 675-705.	Interactive sea level rise viewers (ISLRVs) are map-based visualization tools that display projections of sea level rise scenarios to communicate their impacts on coastal areas. Information visualization research suggests that as users interact with such tools they construct personalized narratives of their experience. We argue that attention to narrative-building features in ISLRVs can improve communication effectiveness by promoting user engagement and discovery. A content analysis that focuses on the presence and characteristics of narrative-building features in a purposive sample of 20 ISLRVs is conducted. We also identify particular areas where these ISLRVs could be improved as narrative-building tools.

Stephens, S. H., et al. (2017). "Evaluation of the Design Features of Interactive Sea-Level Rise Viewers for Risk Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(2): 248-262.	Interactive sea-level rise viewers (ISLRVs) are digital tools used to communicate about impacts of sea-level rise (SLR) and support decision-making. This study characterizes how ISLRVs communicate about SLR-related risks and provide decision-making support. It identifies key themes about fostering accurate mental models of SLR processes, informing about inundation likelihood, communicating about related social and ecological risks, and providing features users can apply to specific tasks. We present a framework for understanding this type of communication tool that designers can use to develop robust ISLRVs that can support audiences' understanding and decision-making needs, and contribute to enhancement of coastal resiliency.

Stevenson, M. and B. J. Taylor (2018). "Risk communication in dementia care: family perspectives." Journal of Risk Research 21(6): 692-709.	Family carers are often involved in decisions concerning the health and social care needs of people with dementia. These decisions frequently involve considering risks inherent in daily living situations and discussing these with care recipients and professionals. The purpose of this study is to understand the risks that present most concern to family carers; explore attitudes and approaches of this group towards risk; and examine how information about risks is shared between familial carers, care recipients and professionals working in dementia care. Five focus groups were held across Northern Ireland between April and July 2015 involving 22 carers. Risks of most concern were driving, falls, financial risks, getting lost and using electrical appliances. Concepts of risk' related to terms such as danger, harm and vulnerability with emphasis on consequences rather than likelihoods. The psychosocial benefits of taking risk were recognised by some participants. Discussion of risks with family members with dementia primarily involved bringing risk matters to the attention of the individual. Family carers talked with a wide range of professionals about risks. Divergences in perspectives were noted, particularly in relation to matters of health and safety. A model of risk communication is developed illustrating how this can play a key role in informed, shared decision-making where a family member has dementia, serving an important role in risk management processes in informal community dementia care.

Stewart, C. O. (2013). "The Influence of News Frames and Science Background on Attributions About Embryonic and Adult Stem Cell Research: Frames as Heuristic/Biasing Cues." Science Communication 35(1): 86-114.	This study investigated effects of frames, science background, and stem cell source on attributions of ethicality, credibility, and usefulness of stem cell research. Framing did not influence perceptions of ethicality, but science majors tended to perceive embryonic research to be more ethical than did nonscience majors. Nonscience majors perceived stem cell research to be less credible than did science majors in an Economic Prospects frame. Science majors perceived embryonic research to be more useful than did nonscience majors except in a Conflict frame. Results suggest that frames cue heuristics that bias science and nonscience majors' cognitions about stem cell research differently.

Stewart, C. O., et al. (2009). "Beliefs About Science and News Frames in Audience Evaluations of Embryonic and Adult Stem Cell Research." Science Communication 30(4): 427-452.	This study investigates the influence of demographic variables, beliefs about science, and news frames on ratings of ethics, credibility, and usefulness of embryonic and adult stem cell research. Framing affected only ratings of ethics, in interaction with type of stem cell, with a large difference between embryonic and adult stem cells in a political conflict frame and no difference in a scientific progress frame. Belief that science is neutral with respect to religion and morality was positively associated with ethics and usefulness ratings for embryonic research; frequency of religious attendance was positively associated with ethics, credibility, and usefulness ratings for adult research only. Humanities and social science majors tended to rate both the embryonic and adult research as more credible, as did participants with higher self-reported science interest and exposure. Quantitative analyses are supplemented with qualitative interview data.

Stewart, J. and T. Clark (2011). "Lessons from South Park: A Comic Corrective to Environmental Puritanism." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(3): 320-336.	This paper explores how South Park's scriptwriters, consistent with Burke's comic corrective, employ populist storylines to satirize radical environmentalists and their opponents. It analyzes three South Park episodes, examining its use of adult cartoon media from two related and optimistic perspectives: Burke's comic frame, to show how South Park acts as a comic corrective to the sometimes boorish behavior of environmental ideologues and Kazin's analysis of populism, to show how South Park's message structure resonates strongly among its key demographics. Given South Park's longevity and popularity, this paper helps us understand how negative stereotypes of environmental advocacy can be constructed in ways that may inhibit popular support for sustainability initiatives, while serving as a reminder that if environmental advocacy is to be broadly persuasive, its message, tone, and delivery must reflect widely shared American values. In this sense, this exploration can serve as a tool for encouraging productive dialog between populists and those who advocate rational care for the Earth.

Stilgoe, J. (2007). "The (co-)production of public uncertainty: UK scientific advice on mobile phone health risks." Public Understanding of Science 16(1): 45-61.	UK scientific advice on the possible health risks of mobile phones has embraced (or seems to be embracing) broader engagement with interested non-experts. This paper explains the context of lost credibility that made such a development necessary, and the implications of greater engagement for the construction (and expert control) of "public concern." I narrate how scientific advice matured from an approach based on compliance with guidelines to a style of "public science" in which issues such as trust and democracy were intertwined with scientific risk assessment. This paper develops existing conceptions of the "public understanding of science" with an explanation based around the co-production of scientific and social order. Using a narrative drawn from a series of in-depth interviews with scientists and policymakers, I explain how expert reformulation of the state of scientific uncertainty within a public controversy reveals constructions of "The Public," and the desired extent of their engagement. Constructions of the public changed at the same time as a construction of uncertainty as solely an expert concern was molded into a state of politically workable public uncertainty. This paper demonstrates how publics can be constructed as instruments of credible policymaking, and suggests the potential for public alienation if nonexperts feel they have not been fairly represented.

Stilgoe, J., et al. (2014). "Why should we promote public engagement with science?" Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 4-15.	This introductory essay looks back on the two decades since the journal Public Understanding of Science was launched. Drawing on the invited commentaries in this special issue, we can see narratives of continuity and change around the practice and politics of public engagement with science. Public engagement would seem to be a necessary but insufficient part of opening up science and its governance. Those of us who have been involved in advocating, conducting and evaluating public engagement practice could be accused of over-promising. If we, as social scientists, are going to continue a normative commitment to the idea of public engagement, we should therefore develop new lines of argument and analysis. Our support for the idea of public engagement needs qualifying, as part of a broader, more ambitious interest in the idea of publicly engaged science.

Stocking, S. H. (1998). "On drawing attention to ignorance." Science Communication 20(1): 165-178.	In the years since a symposium on science and ignorance at the 1993 annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) a small but growing number of scholars has begun to study scientific ignorance. This essay offers informal descriptions of three major projects on the social construction of ignorance and raises the possibility for the development of a sociology of scientific ignorance (SSI) to complement the existing sociology of scientific knowledge (SSK). As currently conceptualized, SSI would draw attention to a wide range of phenomena in scientific discourse and practice; these include a rich assortment of ignorance claims, and ignorance arrangements, social arrangements that work to deprive people of scientific knowledge. For SSI to develop its full potential will require scholars to overcome ignorance of existing scholarship and resistance within both science and science studies to ignorance as an organizing idea. The benefits, if scholars can do these things, may be many.

Stocking, S. H. and L. W. Holstein (2009). "Manufacturing doubt: journalists' roles and the construction of ignorance in a scientific controversy." Public Understanding of Science 18(1): 23-42.	In recent decades, corporate and special interests have developed a wide repertoire of methods to manufacture doubt about science that threatens their interests. In the case presented here, a trade association issued a rich assortment of rhetorical claims intended to sow public confusion about university studies that threatened to undermine its industry's activities. Journalists' use of these claims appeared to vary largely as a function of their perceptions of their journalistic roles and of their audiences, though their knowledge of science also appeared to play a role. Our findings offer insight into how and why reporters respond to rhetorical claims about scientific ignorance and uncertainty that actors use to discredit threatening science. In so doing, they contribute to growing scholarship on journalists' contributions to the social construction of ignorance in scientific controversies.

Stoddart, M. C. J., et al. (2017). "Media Access and Political Efficacy in the Eco-politics of Climate Change: Canadian National News and Mediated Policy Networks." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(3): 386-400.	We use a discourse network analysis approach to answer two questions about national news coverage of climate change policy debate in Canada during the period 2006-2010. First, what is the media visibility of actors relevant to policy development and advocacy on climate change? Second, given the political and economic context of climate policy-making in Canada, does greater or lesser media visibility reflect effectiveness in climate policy advocacy? Multiple interpretive frameworks characterize Canadian political discourse about climate change, with fragmentation between the federal government, opposition political parties, provincial governments, and environmental organizations. Contrary to expectations, environmental organizations had high levels of media visibility while the relative invisibility of fossil fuel corporations was notable in the media coverage of Canadian climate discussions. Our findings challenge optimistic accounts of the relationship between media power and political power, and suggest that media power does not necessarily translate to political efficacy.

Stoffle, R. and J. Minnis (2008). "Resilience at risk: epistemological and social construction barriers to risk communication." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 55-68.	This paper is about the persistent failure of social scientists to bring into the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process socially constructed environmental concerns held by potentially impacted communities. The failure to communicate perceived risks results from a two-communities divide based on both epistemological differences and obfuscation due to vernacular communication. The analysis provides robust modeling variables that can bridge this social-environmental divide. The case involves data collected from members of traditional communities regarding their perceptions of the potential impacts of proposed Marine Protected Areas (MPAs). The study is situated in the Bahamas where the government has approved setting aside 30 No-take MPAs to protect their sea. This analysis is based on 572 interviews conducted during eight field trips with members of six traditional settlements in the Exuma Islands and Cays in the central Bahamas. Confidence in the findings is high because the sample involves 34% of the census population of these settlements and the findings have repeatedly been returned for review and approval by the members of these settlements.

Stokes, C. (2001). "Meaning in technology." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 243-244.
	
Stokes, E. (2008). "The EC courts' contribution to refining the parameters of precaution." Journal of Risk Research 11(4): 491-507.	By virtue of its ambiguity, it has largely been left to the courts to flesh out the scope and application of the precautionary principle. This paper examines the contribution made by EC courts to defining the parameters of precautionary decision making. In so doing, it illustrates that, though the precautionary principle is seen to operate in a number of regulatory contexts, discernible trends in judicial interpretations of precaution and the underlying notion of 'uncertainty' can nevertheless be identified. In contrast with early judgments, the courts are beginning to explicitly interpret risk assessment processes as having a pivotal role in determining precautionary intervention. Rather than finding simply that circumstances of uncertainty warrant precautionary measures, the courts have started to require that clear, or 'concrete', evidence of harm, deriving from risk assessment, is established before intervention is justified. This paper posits three explanations for this shift: (i) the 'better regulation' initiative within Europe; (ii) the Commission's Communication on the Precautionary Principle; and (iii) WTO litigation on precautionary safeguard measures. The judicial move to affiliate precaution with risk assessment processes in decision making can be seen as a reflection of these factors.

Stone, E. R., et al. (2017). "Designing Graphs to Communicate Risks: Understanding How the Choice of Graphical Format Influences Decision Making." Risk Analysis 37(4): 612-628.	Previous research suggests that the choice of graphical format for communicating risk information affects both understanding of the risk magnitude and the likelihood of acting to decrease risk. However, the mechanisms through which these effects work are poorly understood. To explore these mechanisms using a real-world scenario, we examined the relative impact of two graphical displays for depicting the risk of exposure to unexploded ammunition during potential land redevelopment. One display depicted only the foreground information graphically (a bar graph of the number of people harmed), and a second depicted the foreground and background graphically (a stacked bar graph representing both the number harmed and at risk). We presented 296 participants with either the foreground-only or the foreground and background graphical display and measured a broad set of outcome variables, examining (1) the graphical display effect on each of the outcome measures and (2) the pathways by which any display effects work to influence decision making. We found that the foreground-only graphical display increased perceived likelihood and experienced fear, which produced greater worry, which in turn increased risk aversion. In addition, a positive evaluation of the communication materials increased support for policies related to land redevelopment, whether those policies were risk taking or risk mitigating. Finally, the foreground-only graphical display decreased understanding of the risk magnitude, showing that approaches to accomplish one risk communication goal (promoting risk-averse decisions) may do so at the expense of another goal (increasing understanding).

Stone, V., et al. (2018). "The Essential Elements of a Risk Governance Framework for Current and Future Nanotechnologies." Risk Analysis 38(7): 1321-1331.	Societies worldwide are investing considerable resources into the safe development and use of nanomaterials. Although each of these protective efforts is crucial for governing the risks of nanomaterials, they are insufficient in isolation. What is missing is a more integrative governance approach that goes beyond legislation. Development of this approach must be evidence based and involve key stakeholders to ensure acceptance by end users. The challenge is to develop a framework that coordinates the variety of actors involved in nanotechnology and civil society to facilitate consideration of the complex issues that occur in this rapidly evolving research and development area. Here, we propose three sets of essential elements required to generate an effective risk governance framework for nanomaterials. (1) Advanced tools to facilitate risk-based decision making, including an assessment of the needs of users regarding risk assessment, mitigation, and transfer. (2) An integrated model of predicted human behavior and decision making concerning nanomaterial risks. (3) Legal and other (nano-specific and general) regulatory requirements to ensure compliance and to stimulate proactive approaches to safety. The implementation of such an approach should facilitate and motivate good practice for the various stakeholders to allow the safe and sustainable future development of nanotechnology.

Stoneman, P., et al. (2013). "Exploring public discourses about emerging technologies through statistical clustering of open-ended survey questions." Public Understanding of Science 22(7): 850-868.	The primary method by which social scientists describe public opinion about science and technology is to present frequencies from fixed response survey questions and to use multivariate statistical models to predict where different groups stand with regard to perceptions of risk and benefit. Such an approach requires measures of individual preference which can be aligned numerically in an ordinal or, preferably, a continuous manner along an underlying evaluative dimension - generally the standard 5- or 7-point attitude question. The key concern motivating the present paper is that, due to the low salience and "difficult" nature of science for members of the general public, it may not be sensible to require respondents to choose from amongst a small and predefined set of evaluative response categories. Here, we pursue a different methodological approach: the analysis of textual responses to "open-ended" questions, in which respondents are asked to state, in their own words, what they understand by the term "DNA." To this textual data we apply the statistical clustering procedures encoded in the Alceste software package to detect and classify underlying discourse and narrative structures. We then examine the extent to which the classifications, thus derived, can aid our understanding of how the public develop and use "everyday" images of, and talk about, biomedicine to structure their evaluations of emerging technologies.

Stott, C. and J. Drury (2017). "Contemporary understanding of riots: Classical crowd psychology, ideology and the social identity approach." Public Understanding of Science 26(1): 2-14.	This article explores the origins and ideology of classical crowd psychology, a body of theory reflected in contemporary popularised understandings such as of the 2011 English riots'. This article argues that during the nineteenth century, the crowd came to symbolise a fear of mass society' and that classical' crowd psychology was a product of these fears. Classical crowd psychology pathologised, reified and decontextualised the crowd, offering the ruling elites a perceived opportunity to control it. We contend that classical theory misrepresents crowd psychology and survives in contemporary understanding because it is ideological. We conclude by discussing how classical theory has been supplanted in academic contexts by an identity-based crowd psychology that restores the meaning to crowd action, replaces it in its social context and in so doing transforms theoretical understanding of riots' and the nature of the self.

Strekalova, Y. A. (2015). "Informing Dissemination Research: A Content Analysis of US Newspaper Coverage of Medical Nanotechnology News." Science Communication 37(2): 151-172.	This study examined nanomedicine coverage by the elite and regional U.S. newspapers. The study sought to study prevalent topics; examine time, risk and benefit, thematic and episodic, and societal and personal impact frames; and identify dominating overarching themes.Technology application and economic consequence were dominant topics, but contrary to the studies of other emerging technologies, regulations and moral issues were the least discussed topics for nanomedicine. A variety of data analytic techniques, including cluster analysis, were performed to analyze data. The analysis has identified three themes, Technology Prospects, High-Risk High-Reward, and Investment Costs, that dominated nanomedicine coverage.

Strydom, P. (2008). "Risk communication: world creation through collective learning under complex contingent conditions." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 5-22.	Risk communication, in the full sense of the word, is a discursive event in which speakers advance claims in the face of other responding participants before a general public. The presence of the public leads the participants to evaluate what happens in moral terms, with the result that their claims obtain an unavoidable normative quality and the discursive event takes the form of a public controversy which puts pressure on the participants to coordinate their disagreements. Proceeding from the assumption of socially distributed and shared cognition, the core argument of this paper is that risk communication, in the final analysis, is a cooperative learning process in and through which a communication community constructively arrives at a diagnostic interpretation of its common situation, the challenge it faces, and possible ways of dealing with it. Since such learning is possible only under conditions of relatively high complexity and contingency, however, its characteristic non-linear dynamic development makes uncertainty both many-sided and unavoidable. Often, however, such a collective achievement is put beyond reach, not simply because of complexity, contingency and uncertainty, but rather because the agents or groups involved follow one or other of a number of strategies which effectively block learning. Were the social sciences to contribute to the enhancement of risk communication (e.g., by facilitating value- and will-formation in the face of concrete problems), they should study the multi-levelled process of risk communication in the different communicative-discursive contexts within which it takes place with a view to clarifying the learning processes and potentials they harbour. Crucial here are the normative standards appealed to and the degree of legitimacy they allow. Not merely the management of uncertainty depends on this, but also the very world brought into being through risk communication.

Stubbe, H. E., et al. (2017). "Helping behavior in a virtual crisis situation: effects of safety awareness and crisis communication." Journal of Risk Research 20(4): 433-444.	Incident evaluations show that bystanders tend to help: they do not wait for professionals to arrive, but act as required by the situation at hand. In the present study, we investigated how safety awareness (induced before an accident happened) and providing a course of action by emergency services affect helping behavior after witnessing a virtual accident with two victims. The main task of the participants was to arrive at a job interview in time. Safety awareness was manipulated by the specific organization they went to: either promoting safe traffic or healthy living. The results show that all participants were inclined to help. Participants who were primed towards safe traffic more often called the emergency number, but talked to the victim less often. Participants who had received specific courses of action moved the victim less often. In all, the results clearly indicate the value of effective risk communication (before an event occurs) and crisis communication (after an event has occurred), as both types of information improve the quality of actual helping behavior at the scene.

Sturgis, P. (2014). "On the limits of public engagement for the governance of emerging technologies." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 38-42.
	
Sturgis, P. and N. Allum (2004). "Science in society: re-evaluating the deficit model of public attitudes." Public Understanding of Science 13(1): 55-74.	The "deficit model" of public attitudes towards science has led to controversy over the role of scientific knowledge in explaining lay people's attitudes towards science. In this paper we challenge the de facto orthodoxy that has connected the deficit model and contextualist perspectives with quantitative and qualitative research methods respectively. We simultaneously test hypotheses from both theoretical approaches using quantitative methodology. The results point to the clear importance of knowledge as a determinant of attitudes toward science. However, in contrast to the rather simplistic deficit model that has traditionally characterized discussions of this relationship, this analysis highlights the complex and interacting nature of the knowledge-attitude interface.

Sturgis, P., et al. (2010). "Public attitudes to genomic science: an experiment in information provision." Public Understanding of Science 19(2): 166-180.	We use an experimental panel study design to investigate the effect of providing "value-neutral" information about genomic science in the form of a short film to a random sample of the British public. We find little evidence of attitude change as a function of information provision. However, our results show that information provision significantly increased dropout from the study amongst less educated respondents. Our findings have implications both for our understanding of the knowledge-attitude relationship in public opinion toward genomic science and for science communication more generally.

Sturgis, P. J. and N. Allum (2001). "Gender differences in scientific knowledge and attitudes toward science: reply to Hayes and Tariq." Public Understanding of Science 10(4): 427-430.
	
Su, L. Y. F., et al. (2014). "Inequalities in Scientific Understanding: Differentiating Between Factual and Perceived Knowledge Gaps." Science Communication 36(3): 352-378.	This study assesses two key types of knowledge assessments, factual and perceived knowledge, in the study of knowledge gaps. In addition, we distinguish between communication channels in exploring the phenomenon, examining nanotechnology knowledge gaps based on levels of attention to traditional media, science blog use, and the frequency of interpersonal discussion. Using regression analysis, we find that how researchers measure knowledge can significantly affect the discovery of gaps. We also find differential effects based on communication channels, including evidence that the direction of perceived gaps in knowledge can be reversed as media consumption increases. Implications of these findings are discussed.

Su, L. Y. F., et al. (2017). "Information-Sharing and Community-Building: Exploring the Use of Twitter in Science Public Relations." Science Communication 39(5): 569-597.	Social media have given rise to new opportunities for science organizations to communicate with the public. Building on theories of science communication and public relations, this study examined scientific institutions' use of Twitter for one-way and two-way communication in connection with science festivals over the period 2012 to 2015, using NanoDays as a case study. It identified three communicative functions of tweets by organizationsinformation, participation, and communitywith most tweets being informational and containing hyperlinks. Nevertheless, longitudinal analyses indicated that organizations have increasingly incorporated community-building practices such as hashtags. Findings help clarify how social media engender science communication paradigms.

Suarez, J. E. (1994). "College Textbook Publishing - Patterns of Corporate Diversification and the Rationalization of the Publishing Process." Science Communication 16(1): 58-89.	Following World War II, the popularization of higher education in the United States produced a mass market for college textbooks. This opportunity attracted business concerns quite remote from book publishing. In a parallel move, large book publishers began to diversify their operations to promote growth and profitability. What impact has such diversification had an the college publishing process? The author studied a sample of twenty two U.S. college publishers, classified them according to four levels of corporate diversification, and identified the association of corporate diversification with the rationalization of the publishing process. The findings suggest that the more diversified a publishing business entity is, the more rationalized its college publishing operation is likely to be.

Suerdem, A., et al. (2013). "PUS in turbulent times II - A shifting vocabulary that brokers inter-disciplinary knowledge." Public Understanding of Science 22(1): 2-15.	To reflect further on 20 years of the journal, we present a lexicographic and bibliometric study of all papers published in Public Understanding of Science (PUS). Lexicographical analysis of the vocabulary of 465 abstracts shows five classes of associated concepts in two periods, 1992-2001 and 2002-2010. The concern for public attitudes and mass media coverage remains on the card; while language has shifted from 'public understanding' to 'public engagement' and environmental concerns have waned then waxed. The bibliometric analysis traces the position of PUS in the inter-citation network of 165 related journals (ISI Web of Science citation database), grouped into 10 disciplines for the purpose of this analysis. Indicators derived from network logic show that the established position of PUS has been stable since 1997. PUS serves a varied brokerage role as gatekeeper into and liaison maker between disciplines. Its inter-citation network position allows PUS to perform inter-disciplinary boundary spanning work that offers a safe space for experimentation with ideas.

Sugiman, T. (2014). "Lessons learned from the 2011 debacle of the Fukushima nuclear power plant." Public Understanding of Science 23(3): 254-267.	The history of nuclear power generation in Japan is analyzed with respect to how the organizational structure of the "nuclear villages," composed of government, private companies and the academic world, negotiated with the growing technology before the Fukushima accident took place. Although nuclear specialists were aware of the potential for a disaster, that did not prevent the enthusiasm for nuclear. The majority of people trusted that new technology would make life easier. The organizational structure of the village consisted of a triangle in which each of the three groups and sub-groups maintained relationships with each other and with the village as a whole to secure its own share of the economic benefits. Based on the sociological theory of norm, we demonstrate that the structure and nature of the relationships in the village facilitated the acceptance of nuclear power despite the element of threat.

Suldovsky, B. (2016). "In science communication, why does the idea of the public deficit always return? Exploring key influences." Public Understanding of Science 25(4): 415-426.	Despite mounting criticism, the deficit model remains an integral part of science communication research and practice. In this article, I advance three key factors that contribute to the idea of the public deficit in science communication, including the purpose of science communication, how communication processes and outcomes are conceptualized, and how science and scientific knowledge are defined. Affording science absolute epistemic privilege, I argue, is the most compelling factor contributing to the continued use of the deficit model. In addition, I contend that the deficit model plays a necessary, though not sufficient, role in science communication research and practice. Areas for future research are discussed.

Suldovsky, B., et al. (2017). "Science Communication and Stakeholder Expertise: Insights from Sustainability Science." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(5): 587-592.	Communicating science is a multifaceted and complex process, particularly in sustainability science where researchers directly engage with non-academic stakeholder partners. In this insight, we explore the relationship between science communication behaviour and perceptions of stakeholder scientific expertise in a large-scale sustainability-focused research project in the Northeastern United States. We find that higher levels of perceived scientific expertise are associated with dialogic and participatory models of communication, and lower levels of perceived scientific expertise are associated with dialogic and diffusion models of communication. This work, while small in scope, highlights the utility of attending to perceptions of expertise within stakeholder engagement contexts. Implications, limitations, and opportunities for future research are discussed.

Suldovsky, B., et al. (2018). "Evaluating Epistemic Commitments and Science Communication Practice in Transdisciplinary Research." Science Communication 40(4): 499-523.	Transdisciplinary research is a central commitment in efforts to advance sustainability. Transdisciplinarity requires integrating knowledge from a variety of groups, including scientists, policymakers, and regulators. Success in integrating multiple ways of knowing is influenced by the relative authority that science, as an epistemology, holds within a collaborative effort. This study draws from the literature on epistemic authority and science communication to explore epistemic authority and engagement within a sustainability science collaboration. Our results highlight persistent contradictions in commitments to epistemic diversity and the privileging of science, demonstrating tensions between conceptual commitments to participatory approaches within sustainability science and practices of engagement.

Suleski, J. and M. Ibaraki (2010). "Scientists are talking, but mostly to each other: a quantitative analysis of research represented in mass media." Public Understanding of Science 19(1): 115-125.	Journal publication has long been relied on as the only required communication of results, tasking journalists with bringing news of scientific discoveries to the public. Output of science papers increased 15% between 1990 and 2001, with total output over 650,000. But, fewer than 0.013-0.34% of papers gained attention from mass media, with health/medicine papers taking the lion's share of coverage. Fields outside of health/medicine had an appearance rate of only 0.001-0.005%. In light of findings that show scientific literacy declining despite growing public interest and scientific output, this study attempts to show that reliance on journal publication and subsequent coverage by the media as the sole form of communication en masse is failing to communicate science to the public.

Sullivan, S. (2016). "Beyond the money shot; or how framing nature matters? Locating Green lat Wildscreen." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 749-762.	Natural history films use technological mediations to frame aspects of nature so as to communicate information, in part through engendering particular viewer affects. As an entertainment industry embedded in capitalist social relations and concerned with competition for finance and ratings, natural history film-making is also a search for "the money shot" -associated with extremes including rarity, sensational behavior, and otherwise un(fore) seen views. I highlight this sensationalizing impetus through ethnographic fieldwork conducted at the biannual UK Wildscreen film festival in 2010. Here, wildlife films were frequently presented as action dramas with a rhythm of anticipation, climax and satisfaction. I argue that, through stimulating significantly disconnective affects, such framing may work against composition of a caring ecocultural ethics that entwines human with more-than-human natures and futures; and that this tendency parallels the similarly disconnecting effects documented for pornographic film. In contrast, I engage with the differently constructive frames guiding the low budget, open access, activist film Green, which, perhaps paradoxically given the thrust of much of the natural history film industry, won the prestigious WWF Gold Panda Award at Wildscreen 2010. I follow framing theorist George Lakoff to emphasize that since cognition is both embodied and embedded in diverse inter-relationships, affective registers generating mimetic connection are as significant in communicating information regarding "the environment" as the text and words by which nature might be framed. I conclude that attention to affective registers and embodied (dis)connections in natural history film may enhance a turning of capitalist spectacle against itself, so as to work more effectively in service to the composition of abundant socionatural futures.

Summ, A. and A. M. Volpers (2016). "What's science? Where's science? Science journalism in German print media." Public Understanding of Science 25(7): 775-790.	This article examines the current state of science coverage in German print media. It deals with the following questions: (1) how the main characteristics of science journalism can be described, (2) whether there is a difference between various scientific fields, and (3) how different definitions of science journalism lead to differing findings. Two forms of science coverage were analyzed in a standardized, two-part content analysis of German newspapers (N=1730 and N=1640). The results show a significant difference between a narrow and a broad definition of science journalism. In the classic understanding, science journalism is prompted by scientific events and is rather noncritical. Science coverage in a broad sense is defined by a wider range of journalistic styles, driven by non-scientific events, and with a focus on the statements of scientific experts. Furthermore, the study describes the specific role of the humanities and social sciences in German science coverage.

Sumner, J. (2010). "Standards and Their Stories: How Quantifying, Classifying, and Formalizing Practices Shape Everyday Life." Public Understanding of Science 19(6): 762-763.
	
Sumpter, R. S. and J. T. Garner (2007). "Telling the Columbia story - Source selection in news accounts of a shuttle accident." Science Communication 28(4): 455-475.	This content analysis of newspaper stories seeks to answer three questions about the Columbia space shuttle disaster: What sources did journalists cite in telling the Columbia story? What did those Sources say? Which sources were heard most often? Stories analyzed were published by the New York Tines, Washington Post, and Houston Chronicle in the 217-day period following the accident. News reporters most frequently used elected and appointed government leaders and NASA administrators, engineers, and other agency employees as sources. Those sources most often communicated "neutral" facts and observations while not placing blame for the accident or evaluating the shuttle program's progress. Astronauts and their relatives, NASA contractors who built and maintained the shuttle fleet, and government accident investigators from agencies other than NASA or the Columbia Accident Investigation Board rarely appeared in the stories. Journalistic routines call for reporters to balance their story narratives with sources representing different viewpoints. In the Columbia story, however, this was not necessarily the case.

Sun, Y., et al. (2017). "Exploring Environmentalism amidst the Clamor of Networks: A Social Network Analysis of Utah Environmental Organizations." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(3): 332-352.	Dwelling in a world awash in multiple environmental crises while science and social theory erode the last vestiges of the subject of humanism, it makes sense to imagine our world beyond the lens of humanism and turn to diverse methodologies in order to explore what is going on and how to promote changes that nurture ecological sustainability. In this essay we take on this task in relation to environmental communication. In what follows we explore the contours of the age after humanism, what we term the Age of the Animate Earth. In the wake of the theoretical and actual deconstruction of the subject, we offer networks as a key unit of analysis. From this perspective, we suggest social network analysis (SNA) as one viable method for doing environmental communication studies and perform this move through a SNA of Utah environmental groups.

Suomela, T. (2012). "Between Reason and Experience: Essays in Technology and Modernity." Public Understanding of Science 21(8): 1023-1023.
	
Suter, G. W. (2000). "Generic assessment endpoints are needed for ecological risk assessment." Risk Analysis 20(2): 173-178.	This article presents arguments for the development of generic assessment endpoints for ecological risk assessment. Generic assessment endpoints would be ecological entities and attributes that are assumed to be worthy of protection in most contexts. The existence of generic assessment endpoints would neither create a requirement that they be used in every assessment nor preclude the use of other assessment endpoints. They would simply be a starting point in the process of identifying the assessment endpoints for a particular assessment. They are needed to meet legal mandates, to provide a floor for environmental degradation, to provide some consistency in environmental regulation, as exemplars for site- or project-specific assessment endpoints, to allow development of methods' and models, to give risk managers the courage to act, for screening and site-independent assessments, to support environmental monitoring, to facilitate communication, and to avoid paralysis by analysis. Generic assessment endpoints should include not only a list of entities and attributes, but also explanations of each endpoint, guidance on their use and interpretation, and measures and models that could be used to estimate them.

Suzuki, A. (2014). "Managing the Fukushima Challenge." Risk Analysis 34(7): 1240-1256.	The Fukushima Daiichi accident raises a fundamental question: Can science and technology prevent the inevitability of serious accidents, especially those with low probabilities and high consequences? This question reminds us of a longstanding challenge with the trans-sciences, originally addressed by Alvin Weinberg well before the Three Mile Island and Chernobyl accidents. This article, revisiting Weinberg's issue, aims at gaining insights from the accident with a special emphasis on the sociotechnical or human behavioral aspects lying behind the accident's causes. In particular, an innovative method for managing the challenge is explored referring to behavioral science approaches to a decision-making process on risk management; such as managing human behavioral risks with information asymmetry, seeking a rational consensus with communicative action, and pursuing procedural rationality through interactions with the outer environment. In short, this article describes the emerging need for Japan to transform its national safety management institutions so that these might be based on interactive communication with parties inside and outside Japan.

Svalastog, A. L. (2012). "Gene myths in public perceptions." Public Understanding of Science 21(4): 478-494.	In this article I examine myths in the gene science debate, and their use as a tool in analysis of popular perceptions and public opinion of genetic science and gene technology. In daily language myth means something untrue, though theories of myth present them as carriers of knowledge and truth. I understand myth as a narrative, a cultural construct that aims to describe the world, its origin, and its constitu-ent elements. I compare scholars' usage of myths, considering their implications. I conclude that i) As an analytical tool the concept of myth is too loosely defined, or understood through theories which leave out context, social relations and interaction. This provides limited insight about myths and myth-making in present day society. ii) An updated understanding of myths, including location/context and interaction/process would enrich analysis.

Svenson, O. (1988). "Mental Models of Risk, Communication, and Action - Reflections on Social Amplification of Risk." Risk Analysis 8(2): 199-200.
	
Svoboda, M. (2014). "Communicating environmental patriotism: a rhetorical history of the American environmental movement." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(4): 549-551.
	
Sweeny, K. and A. Dillard (2014). "The Effects of Expectation Disconfirmation on Appraisal, Affect, and Behavioral Intentions." Risk Analysis 34(4): 711-720.	People's risk perceptions can have powerful effects on their outcomes, yet little is known about how people respond to risk information that disconfirms a prior expectation. We experimentally examined the affective, cognitive, and behavioral consequences of expectation disconfirmation in the context of risk perceptions. Participants were randomly assigned and then prompted toward either a high or low personal risk estimate regarding a fictitious health threat. All participants then received the same risk feedback, which presented either a negative disconfirmation experience (i.e., worse than expected) in the high-risk estimate condition or a positive disconfirmation experience (i.e., better than expected) in the low-risk estimate condition. Participants who experienced the negative disconfirmation reported stronger intentions to prevent the threat in the future compared to participants who experienced the positive disconfirmation. This effect was mediated by both disappointment about the risk feedback and perceptions of the severity of the threat. These findings have implications for risk communication, suggesting that the provision of objective risk information may improve or diminish the likelihood of behavior change depending on people's initial expectations and their emotional and cognitive reactions to the information.

Swenson, R. and N. Olsen (2018). "Food for Thought: Audience Engagement with Sustainability Messages in Branded Content." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(7): 973-988.	Branded platforms are a growing "gray-zone" of marketing and media messages, in which corporations and news journalists partner to create content that supports strategic corporate goals while aligning with a publication's scope of editorial coverage. As corporations are key influencers of and contributors to environmental communication, this trend has the potential to change environmental dialogue. In this article, we closely examine messages about food and sustainability, created in partnership by Chipotle Mexican Grill and the Huffington Post news site. We illustrate how use of a branded platform expanded the scope of environmental topics, issues, and frames that Chipotle addresses, how frames identified here connect to frames in coverage of science-related issues, as identified by other scholars, and discuss how branded platforms allow corporations to draw attention to polarizing environmental issues while protecting stakeholder relationships and brand reputation.

Swim, J. K. and B. Bloodhart (2015). "Portraying the Perils to Polar Bears: The Role of Empathic and Objective Perspective-taking Toward Animals in Climate Change Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(4): 446-468.	Images of animals, particularly polar bears, harmed by climate change are often used in environmental campaigns, despite warnings of potential reactance and resultant perceived distance from the issue. As an alternative to these emotional appeals, environmental campaigns could encourage an objective (i.e., emotionally detached) perspective on climate change impacts. The present research tests the effects of a message that encourage empathic vs. objective perspectives toward polar bears harmed by climate change on emotions and subsequent support for climate change activism among 241 American adults through an online survey. Contrary to popular warnings, the present research found no reactance toward portraying harm to polar bears from climate change and no benefits of taking an objective perspective toward the polar bears. Instead, portrayals of polar bears harmed by climate change motivated both environmentalists and non-environmentalists to donate money to environmental activist groups when they took an empathic perspective toward the animals. Empathy and hope explain effects for environmentalists and empathy, hope, worry, personal guilt, and boredom explain effects for non-environmentalists.

Swim, J. K. and N. Geiger (2017). "From Alarmed to Dismissive of Climate Change: A Single Item Assessment of Individual Differences in Concern and Issue Involvement." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(4): 568-586.	The present paper tests the validity of using a single-item individual difference measure of climate change concern derived from the Six Americas project's descriptions of the US public's concern about climate change. The Six Americas project identified six segments of the US population proposed to range from the most (i.e. Alarmed) to least Concerned (i.e. Dismissive). The order is also proposed to relate to issue involvement with those in the middle of the continuum least involved. Three studies support the reliability, construct validity, and predictive validity of self-categorization into the six segments as a single-item individual difference measure of climate change concern. Results support both a linear relation with concern about climate change and a curvilinear relation with issue involvement. These findings suggest that the single-item self-categorization measure developed for use in this manuscript is a valid and concise measure for researchers to assess participants' opinions about climate change.

Szu, E., et al. (2017). "Factual accuracy and the cultural context of science in popular media: Perspectives of media makers, middle school students, and university students on an entertainment television program." Public Understanding of Science 26(5): 596-611.	Popular media influences ideas about science constructed by the public. To sway media productions, public policy organizations have increasingly promoted use of science consultants. This study contributes to understanding the connection from science consultants to popular media to public outcomes. A science-based television series was examined for intended messages of the creator and consulting scientist, and received messages among middle school and non-science university students. The results suggest the consulting scientist missed an opportunity to influence the portrayal of the cultural contexts of science and that middle school students may be reading these aspects uncritically-a deficiency educators could potentially address. In contrast, all groups discussed the science content and practices of the show, indicating that scientific facts were salient to both media makers and audiences. This suggests popular media may influence the public knowledge of science, supporting concerns of scientists about the accuracy of fictional television and film.

Szymanski, E. (2016). "Enacting Multiple Audiences: Science Communication Texts and Research-Industry Relationships in the New Zealand Wine Industry." Science Communication 38(6): 724-745.	Science communication makes science relevant to nonscientist audiences, but relevance and audience can be resolved at multiple levels. This study in the New Zealand wine industry suggests that written science communication can make science topically relevant without building relevant relationships with individual audience members. Paradoxically, winemakers and winegrowers describe research as relevant to industry generally but not to their own work in particular. Analyzing science communication documents shows rhetorical moves connecting research and industry but distancing research from individual readers. This case suggests the utility of attending to rhetorical relationships in science communication and the need for unique rhetorical strategies.

Takach, G. (2013). "Selling Nature In a Resource-based Economy: Romantic/Extractive Gazes and Alberta's Bituminous Sands." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(2): 211-230.	Recent literature has explored the interplay between the Romantic gaze and the extractive gaze to conclude that in separating people from nature, both gazes function similarly to subordinate the land to human purposes. Such representations may be seen as part of a wider trend in which media visualizations of nature are based on an implicit ideology, tending to perpetuate and justify existing power relations; those visualizations use images which are increasingly abstract or iconic, and which by force of repetition, replace alternative representations and obscure connections to societal processes such as globalism and consumerism. This article takes up and extends that argument to a critical visual discourse analysis of an official place-branding slideshow produced by the Province of Alberta (Canada), which boasts an economy based significantly on producing non-renewable fossil fuels. In examining that slideshow in terms of Romantic/extractive gazes, this study situates Alberta's rebranding on Corbett's continuum of anthropocentric-ecocentric values; interrogates connections among Alberta's rebranding and invisible flows of power at work in broader, underlying societal processes like globalization, Neoliberalism and consumerism; and tests the commonality of the relationship between extractive and Romantic gazes in light of those processes.

Takahashi, B. (2011). "Framing and sources: a study of mass media coverage of climate change in Peru during the V ALCUE." Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 543-557.	Studies about mass media framing have found divergent levels of influence on public opinion; moreover, the evidence suggests that issue attributes can contribute to this difference. In the case of climate change, studies have focused exclusively on developed countries, suggesting that media influence perceptions about the issue. This study presents one of the first studies of media coverage in a developing country. It examines newspapers' reporting in Peru during the Fifth Latin America, Caribbean and European Union Summit in May 2008. The study focuses on the frames and the sources to provide an initial exploratory assessment of the coverage. The results show that the media relied mostly on government sources, giving limited access to dissenting voices such as environmentalists. Additionally, a prominence of "solutions" and "effects" frames was found, while "policy" and "science" frames were limited. The results could serve as a reference point for more comprehensive studies.

Takahashi, B., et al. (2015). "Exploring the Use of Online Platforms for Climate Change Policy and Public Engagement by NGOs in Latin America." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(2): 228-247.	The engagement of environmental non-governmental groups in collaborative communication efforts and decision-making about climate change remains a significant challenge. In Latin America, the website Intercambio Climatico was set up to attempt to play a breakthrough role in the region's discussion of climate change. This case study focuses on the development, accomplishments, and challenges of this unique online communication initiative among non-governmental organizations working in climate change issues in Latin America with a US-based partner, as a vehicle to achieve their goals. We used secondary data and in-depth interviews to examine this platform's role in disseminating information and influencing decision-making. The results suggest that generally the participants perceive the website positively, but there are also problematic aspects of the collaboration that are not fully recognized by the members, which prevents a more functional and effective communication strategy.

Takahashi, B., et al. (2017). "Climate Change Reporting in Great Lakes Region Newspapers: A Comparative Study of the Use of Expert Sources." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(1): 106-121.	This study focuses on the use of science sources as experts in news stories about climate change coverage in the Great Lakes region of the US and Canada. We examine, using the hierarchy of influences model, whether the use of scientific sources in climate change coverage may be related to factors such as geographic location, reporting frequency, and authorship, in the prestige press as well as regional and local media. The study found that as many or more non-scientists than scientists are selected as sources regardless of geographic location, reporting frequency, or authorship. However, the study also found that the more stories reporters produce on this topic, the more likely their stories are to use and give prominence to science sources. In addition, the articles included few denier sources, but denier views are more likely to appear in a more prominent location in the articles than supporters when stories are framed as conflict over global warming. These results highlight the need for additional research examining the expertise of climate scientists in news stories to better understand news decision-making in the context of complex scientific reporting.

Takahashi, B. and M. Meisner (2012). "Environmental Discourses and Discourse Coalitions in the Reconfiguration of Peru's Environmental Governance." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(3): 346-364.	Environmental discourses are considered precursors to policy decisions as they delimit the range of policy options. The mass media are an important arena for those discourses and the discourse coalitions engaged in struggles to define policy and political issues. The study of such discourses requires an expansion to contexts outside developed countries, but within the influence of global forces, especially in how dominant global discourses influence national policy making. This article focuses on the competing discourses in the debate about the creation of the Peruvian Ministry of the Environment as portrayed by the media and the actors involved in the process. The results show a debate dominated by neoliberal discourses of administrative rationalism and economic rationalism, intertwined with the environmental requirements of a free trade agreement between Peru and the USA. In this case, democratic and environmental justice concerns-from both indigenous rights and anti-hegemonic perspectives-were marginalized. The study presents the operationalization of theoretical categorizations of environmental discourses within the concepts of storylines and discourse coalitions.

Takahashi, B. and E. C. Tandoc (2016). "Media sources, credibility, and perceptions of science: Learning about how people learn about science." Public Understanding of Science 25(6): 674-690.	Knowledge about science and technology has become increasingly important in this age of digital information overload. It is also becoming increasingly important to understand what contributes to scientific learning, including information sources and trust in those sources. In this study, we develop and test a multivariate model to explain scientific knowledge based on past theories on learning from the news from the fields of political communication, sociology, and media psychology. We focus on the impact of sourcesby platform, such as television and online, and by expertise, such as scientists and the mediain understanding what predicts scientific knowledge. The results show that interest in science not only directly predicts knowledge but also has indirect effects on knowledge through its effects on Internet use, confidence in the press, and perception of scientists. In addition, distrust on the news sources is an important pathway to learning about science.

Takao, K., et al. (2004). "Factors determining residents' preparedness for floods in modern megalopolises: the case of the Tokai flood disaster in Japan." Journal of Risk Research 7(7-8): 775-787.	This study examines how flood risk perception and home ownership affect residents' preparedness for floods, focusing specifically on the case of the Tokai flood disaster in Nagoya City, one of Japan's biggest metropolises, in 2000. The greatest rainfall ever recorded in Nagoya City (566.5 mm) occurred on 11-12 September 2000; as a result, a local river burst its banks and flooded the city. A survey was conducted of residents of the affected area in Nagoya City and its adjacent region. The respondents were asked to rate the extent of their experience with, anticipation of, and preparedness for floods before and after the Tokai disaster in terms of taking special measures against floods. The results showed that the degree of preparedness for floods was determined by the level of fear of floods and the amount of damage sustained during the Tokai flood, especially for homeowners. However, the residents' preparedness did not depend on their anticipation of floods. These findings show that preparedness for floods depends on ownership of a home, fear of flooding, and the amount of damage from previous floods rather than on previous experience with and anticipation of floods.

Tal, A. (2016). "Rigor Mortis: Statistical thoroughness in reporting and the making of truth." Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 141-145.	Should a uniform checklist be adopted for methodological and statistical reporting? The current article discusses this notion, with particular attention to the use of old versus new statistics, and a consideration of the arguments brought up by Von Roten. The article argues that an overly exhaustive checklist that is uniformly applied to all submitted papers may be unsuitable for multidisciplinary work, and would further result in undue clutter and potentially distract reviewers from pertinent considerations in their evaluation of research articles.

Tal, A. and B. Wansink (2016). "Blinded with science: Trivial graphs and formulas increase ad persuasiveness and belief in product efficacy." Public Understanding of Science 25(1): 117-125.	The appearance of being scientific can increase persuasiveness. Even trivial cues can create such an appearance of a scientific basis. In our studies, including simple elements, such as graphs (Studies 1-2) or a chemical formula (Study 3), increased belief in a medication's efficacy. This appears to be due to the association of such elements with science, rather than increased comprehensibility, use of visuals, or recall. Belief in science moderates the persuasive effect of graphs, such that people who have a greater belief in science are more affected by the presence of graphs (Study 2). Overall, the studies contribute to past research by demonstrating that even trivial elements can increase public persuasion despite their not truly indicating scientific expertise or objective support.

Tan, A. L., et al. (2017). "Spiderman and science: How students' perceptions of scientists are shaped by popular media." Public Understanding of Science 26(5): 520-530.	This study addresses the influence of popular media on how young children perceive science and the work of scientists. Using an adapted version of the Draw-A-Scientist Test, 15 classes of fourth graders (9-10 years old) at three different schools in Singapore were sampled (n = 266). The students' drawings as well as their identification of three sources from which they obtained inspiration for their drawings were analyzed. Our results showed a strong relationship between students' drawings of scientists and their reported sources of inspiration. The results suggest that popular media play a large role in shaping how young children view scientists.

Tan, M. L., et al. (2011). "Communicating Fish Consumption Advisories in California: What Works, What Doesn't." Risk Analysis 31(7): 1095-1106.	State agencies face many challenges in creating sport fish consumption advisories that can be readily understood by diverse populations. In this study, our objectives were to identify barriers to understanding consumption advisories and recommend more effective approaches for communicating advisory concepts. We conducted key informant interviews with demographically diverse consumers of sport fish from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta watershed in California to explore how intended audiences perceive consumption advisories and identify factors that influence comprehension. Some barriers to communication included the use of portion sizes that departed from commonly consumed amounts, poorly understood terminology, misleading category headings, and ineffective visual tools. Comprehension was enhanced when advisory information did not contradict existing beliefs about fish or fish consumption, and when advisories provided information about contaminant levels in specific kinds of fish. Using certain methods, such as portion sizes that reflect commonly consumed amounts, mercury meters to convey contaminant levels, three advice categories (e. g., high, medium, low), and population definitions that identify specific age ranges, improved the clarity of advisory concepts for intended audiences.

Tan, S. Z. K. and J. A. U. Perucho (2018). "Bringing Science to Bars: A Strategy for Effective Science Communication." Science Communication 40(6): 819-826.	It is well accepted that it is part of a scientist's duty to communicate science, yet most practicing scientists lack the training and opportunity to do so. In this article, we use the framework of science talks in bars to highlight the importance of locality and environment. We propose that science communication programs should be developed around the locales of the target community as an effective strategy to counter the rising mistrust in science and scientists.

Tanaka, Y. (2013). "Attitude gaps between conventional plant breeding crops and genetically modified crops, and psychological models determining the acceptance of the two crops." Journal of Risk Research 16(1): 69-80.	Thus far, people's attitudes toward biotechnology and genetically modified (GM) crops have been investigated in the European Union, USA, Japan, and other nations. However, direct comparisons between people's attitudes toward conventional plant breeding crops and their attitudes toward GM crops will show the characteristics of people's attitudes toward GM crops more clearly, and this will bring about valuable suggestions considering risk communication about GM crops. The first purpose of this study was to show attitude gaps between conventional plant breeding crops and GM crops. Referring to preceding studies related to the acceptance of biotechnology, a causal model was constructed to predict the acceptance of GM crops and plant breeding crops. Four factors perceived risk, perceived benefit, trust, and sense of bioethics were set up as important psychological factors determining the acceptance of GM crops and plant breeding crops in the structural equation models. The second purpose of this study was to verify the validity of these causal models. A social survey was administered in Tokyo, Japan, with a sample of 600 men and women aged 20years or older who participated. The results showed that people have a more negative attitude toward GM crops than toward conventional plant breeding crops in every factor, that is, perceived risk, perceived benefit, trust, sense of bioethics, and acceptance. The plausibility of the causal models was tested by using structural equation modeling, and the results indicated that the four factors explain the acceptance very well in both models. Moreover, although perceived risk is the most important factor in the acceptance of GM crops, trust is the most important factor in the acceptance of conventional plant breeding crops.

Tang, J. J., et al. (2013). "Public Engagement Through Shared Immersion: Participating in the Processes of Research." Science Communication 35(5): 654-666.	Recently, the literature has emphasized the aims and logistics of public engagement, rather than its epistemic and cultural processes. In this conceptual article, we use our work on surgical simulation to describe a process that has moved from the classroom and the research laboratory into the public sphere. We propose an innovative shared immersion model for framing the relationship between engagement activities and research. Our model thus frames the public engagement experience as a participative encounter, which brings visitor and researcher together in a shared (surgical) experience mediated by experts from a range of domains.

Tanner, A., et al. (2008). "Using student-produced media to promote healthy eating - A pilot study on the effects of a media and nutrition intervention." Science Communication 30(1): 108-125.	This study evaluated the effectiveness of an intervention in which fourth and fifth graders participated in an after-school program where they produced a media campaign that focused on increasing fruit and vegetable (FV) consumption. Researchers measured the effectiveness of the media campaign in changing the home nutrition environment (e. g., FV availability and parental support). Quantitative and qualitative measures were also used to evaluate the effect of the intervention on the children's self-efficacy, motivation, and perceived parental social support related to FV consumption. Data from the parents indicated greater availability of FV at home and more instrumental support for their children to eat FV.

Tanner, A. and D. B. Friedman (2011). "Authorship and Information Sourcing for Health News on Local TV Web Sites: An Exploratory Analysis." Science Communication 33(1): 3-27.	This study provides a nationwide examination of general health information on local television Web sites, analyzing 278 news stories on 79 Web sites. Professional authorship and expert sources of information are assessed in an effort to explain how journalists, along with individuals and organizations outside of the newsroom, influence the health news stories posted in the online environment. Stories were significantly more likely to be authored by a television staff reporter than a syndicated service or wire service. Almost 15% of the stories included no attribution or quotes from health sources. When a story did include a reference, it was most often a government source. Authorship and health content varied significantly by media market size. Primary sources of information also differed significantly, depending on the authorship and health focus of the online information.

Tanner, A. H. (2004). "Agenda building, source selection, and health news at local television stations - A nationwide survey of local television health reporters." Science Communication 25(4): 350-363.	This nationwide study of local television news health reporters examined health and medical news gathering from the reporters' perspective. Data from this study, revealed significant insight into how these health reporters receive ideas for their health stories and what motivates a health reporter to cover a particular topic. The findings suggest a link between agenda building and health reporting, suggesting that a health reporter's reliance on sources is exacerbated by the technical nature of health and medical news. For example, more than half of respondents received ideas for their health reports directly from a health source who personally contacted them. Sixty percent said that they must frequently find a health expert to explain technical information and agreed that health sources often affect the health content making air.

Tansey, J. D. and M. Burgess (2008). "The meanings of genomics: a focus group study of "interested" and lay classifications of salmon genomics." Public Understanding of Science 17(4): 473-484.	Risk researchers have traditionally examined technologies that have become stigmatized in the public realm. In this study, we examine a prior cognitive phenomenon, which assumes that technologies are classified according to the non-scientific taxonomies that individuals use to make sense of the world. We describe the coarse taxonomies revealed during five focus groups involving expert and non-expert participants. The study suggests that in discussions of salmon genomics, participants consistently conflate genomic research with transgenic applications. The authors discuss the implications of this phenomenon for public policy.

Tavares, A. O. and P. P. dos Santos (2014). "Re-scaling risk governance using local appraisal and community involvement." Journal of Risk Research 17(7): 923-949.	This paper describes a risk governance model applied on a local scale, showing the advantages and constraints found during its application. The risk governance model, built on a municipal scale, results from the application of the International Risk Governance Council framework. The model is characterised by the cyclicity between the assessment and management spheres, assuming communication to be essential in all stages. Its application in central Portugal is rooted in a specific knowledge of hazards and their impacts, the human and financial constraints, and the expectations of citizens and stakeholders. The results show that preformatted management solutions derived from national civil protection stakeholders can be adapted to a local physical, social and institutional context. It was found that this depends significantly on the stakeholders' concerns assessment, as this allows the subsequent risk management options to be adapted and legitimised. As a result, more appropriate land-use regulations and mitigation strategies are being designed, which are related to urban planning, road design, risk sensitisation and communication tools. However, two features are likely to lead to an overlapping of competences and conflicts concerning responsibility for decision-making in the actual civil protection structure: the current constraints on resources on an operational level and the potentially inadequate representation of stakeholders on a strategic level.

Taylor-Gooby, P. (2006). "Social divisions of trust: Scepticism and democracy in the GM Nation? Debate." Journal of Risk Research 9(1): 75-95.	This paper reviews recent developments in research on institutional and expert trust across a number of disciplines to show that a deferential and accepting public stance in relation to officially sanctioned judgements is increasingly being replaced by a more sceptical approach. One outcome is a move towards greater public engagement in issues of high profile new technology. This paper reviews the literature and considers the most substantial public engagement exercise in the UK so far-the GM Nation? debate in 2002-3. It shows that scepticism is widespread but that the relation between scepticism and trust differs across social groups. Among the more privileged scepticism undermines trust. Among working class and less well-educated groups scepticism and trust are correlated positively.

Technology, O. S. (2001). "Science and the public: a review of science communication and public attitudes toward science in Britain." Public Understanding of Science 10(3): 319-334.	The following excerpts are from a report that draws together the results from two pieces of research-an over-view of science communication activities in Britain today and a detailed review of the public's attitude toward science. By combining the information from both studies, the report aims to inform future science communication strategies for both policy and practice. The full report is Office of Science and Technology and the Wellcome Trust, Science and the Public: A Review of Science Communication and Public Attitudes to Science in Britain (London, October 2000) and is available online at www.wellcome.ac.uk.

Teich, A. H. (1998). "Endless frontier or just a mirage? The quest for a national science policy." Science Communication 20(1): 124-135.	Given that the United States lacks a coherent national science policy, the question then becomes whether such policy should (or could) be developed in the current political environment. The author explores this question from the perspectives of overall budgetary support, priority-setting, and research relevance, concluding that the exercise of developing a national policy, even if ultimately unsuccessful, could help to reaffirm science's national importance and autonomy and to coalesce its fragmented political support.

Ten Eyck, T. A. (1999). "Shaping a food safety debate - Control efforts of newspaper reporters and sources in the food irradiation controversy." Science Communication 20(4): 426-447.	Numerous studies of contacts between reporters and scientists have been undertaken, although few have focused on the degree to which these actors become embedded in their own control efforts. This study consists of interviews with sources-both scientists and nonscientists-and newspaper reporters involved in the coverage of food irradiation at two regional newspapers, if reveals the processes of boundary construction and the building of common knowledge among these actors, which prevent others from voicing their opinions on this particular postharvest technology. An interpretation of this data questions the prediction that food information wars will subside and the assumption that newspapers are public arenas.

Ten Eyck, T. A. (2005). "The media and public opinion on genetics and biotechnology: mirrors, windows, or walls?" Public Understanding of Science 14(3): 305-316.	Arguments regarding the relationship between media discourse and public opinion have raged for decades, if not centuries. Comparing media coverage of biotechnology between 1992 and 2001 in two national newspapers with national survey data collected in early 2003, an argument is made that a general one-dimensional media effect is not occurring within the US public regarding media discourse. Given the multivalent characteristics of the media and the interpretive filters used by audiences-including ignoring information-even strong slants by the presumed opinion-leading press (the New York Times and the Washington Post) do not predict public opinion on a nascent issue such as biotechnology. While some reflections do appear between the media and public opinion, closer observations show these mirrors to be ephemeral.

Ten Eyck, T. A. and M. Williment (2003). "The national media and things genetic - Coverage in the New York Times (1971-2001) and the Washington Post (1977-2001)." Science Communication 25(2): 129-152.	Issues related to genetics and genetic technology have gained a great deal of attention from researchers, policy makers, the press, and even some consumers. This article focuses on how one of these actors-the U.S. elite press-has developed a discourse around these issues. This discussion centers on the framing of articles, the sources used by reporters, and the differences between genetics as they relate to food and to medicine. Over 2,700 articles from the New York Times (1971-2001) and the Washington Post (1977-2001) have been analyzed. It is found that scientists and medical issues were much more likely to be framed as progressive than were articles on food or ones in which government officials were quoted. In addition, a more in-depth analysis of articles pertaining to protests and demonstrations between 2000 and 2001 is presented.

Tenenbaum, D. (2007). "Underwater to get out of the rain: A love affiair with the sea." Science Communication 28(3): 423-425.
	
Tenenbaum, D. J. (2010). "Unscientific America: How Scientific Illiteracy Threatens Our Future." Science Communication 32(1): 132-135.
	
Ter Huurne, E. and J. Gutteling (2008). "Information needs and risk perception as predictors of risk information seeking." Journal of Risk Research 11(7): 847-862.	This paper introduces a theoretical framework that describes the importance of public's information sufficiency, risk perception, and self-efficacy as predictors of intended risk information seeking behaviour. Based on theoretical assumptions, measurement instruments for relevant concepts were developed and validated using data from a mail questionnaire. Relationships among selected determinants of risk information seeking behaviour were analysed. Results indicate that information needs, risk perception, and current knowledge are direct predictors of intentions to seek information. Trust, engagement, social influence, and self-efficacy affect risk perception and the need for information is influenced by engagement and social influence.

ter Huurne, E. F. J., et al. (2009). "Risk Information Seeking Among US and Dutch Residents An Application of the Model of Risk Information Seeking and Processing." Science Communication 31(2): 215-237.	The model of risk information seeking and processing (RISP) proposes characteristics of individuals that might predispose them to seek risk information. The intent of this study is to test the model's robustness across two independent samples in different nations. Based on data from the United States and the Netherlands, the causal structure involving the impact of different predictors of seeking information was evaluated. In addition, the direct contributions of informational subjective norms and affective responses to the seeking of additional risk information were tested. Results indicate that the RISP model has international validity and that the newly proposed paths are plausible.

ter Huurne, E. F. J. and J. M. Gutteling (2009). "How to trust? The importance of self-efficacy and social trust in public responses to industrial risks." Journal of Risk Research 12(6): 809-824.	Although a great deal of research has linked both self-efficacy and social trust to risk responses, one overlooked question concerns the association between self-efficacy and institutional trust. The purpose of this study was to investigate the main and combined effects of trust in the self and trust in responsible agencies to affective responses and information sufficiency. Survey respondents in this study were placed into one of four categories based on their levels of self-efficacy (high/low) and social trust (high/low), including confidence, independence, dependence and insecure groups. Based on survey data (n=466), the accuracy of the four-group classification was tested. Indeed, we found that our classification system correlated with responses. Both self-efficacy and institutional trust were found to contribute to emotional risk responses, as well as risk information needs and preferences for risk information.

Teravainen, T. (2014). "Representations of energy policy and technology in British and Finnish newspaper media: A comparative perspective." Public Understanding of Science 23(3): 299-315.	This article analyses media representations of the strengthening technological energy policy orientation in the UK and Finland. Drawing from over 1200 newspaper articles from 1991 to 2006, it scrutinises how energy policy in general and energy technologies in particular have been discussed by the media in these two countries, and how the media representations have changed over time. The results point to the importance of national political, economic and cultural features in shaping media discussions. At the same time, international political events and ideas of technology-driven economic growth have transformed media perceptions of energy technologies. While the British media have been rather critical towards national policies throughout the period of analysis, the Finnish newspaper Helsingin Sanomat has supported successive national governments. In both countries, energy technologies have increasingly become linked to global societal and political questions.

Terpstra, T. (2011). "Emotions, Trust, and Perceived Risk: Affective and Cognitive Routes to Flood Preparedness Behavior." Risk Analysis 31(10): 1658-1675.	Despite the prognoses of the effects of global warming (e.g., rising sea levels, increasing river discharges), few international studies have addressed how flood preparedness should be stimulated among private citizens. This article aims to predict Dutch citizens' flood preparedness intentions by testing a path model, including previous flood hazard experiences, trust in public flood protection, and flood risk perceptions (both affective and cognitive components). Data were collected through questionnaire surveys in two coastal communities (n = 169, n = 244) and in one river area community (n = 658). Causal relations were tested by means of structural equation modeling (SEM). Overall, the results indicate that both cognitive and affective mechanisms influence citizens' preparedness intentions. First, a higher level of trust reduces citizens' perceptions of flood likelihood, which in turn hampers their flood preparedness intentions (cognitive route). Second, trust also lessens the amount of dread evoked by flood risk, which in turn impedes flood preparedness intentions (affective route). Moreover, the affective route showed that levels of dread were especially influenced by citizens' negative and positive emotions related to their previous flood hazard experiences. Negative emotions most often reflected fear and powerlessness, while positive emotions most frequently reflected feelings of solidarity. The results are consistent with the affect heuristic and the historical context of Dutch flood risk management. The great challenge for flood risk management is the accommodation of both cognitive and affective mechanisms in risk communications, especially when most people lack an emotional basis stemming from previous flood hazard events.

Terpstra, T., et al. (2009). "Does Communicating (Flood) Risk Affect (Flood) Risk Perceptions ? Results of a Quasi-Experimental Study." Risk Analysis 29(8): 1141-1155.	People's risk perceptions are generally regarded as an important determinant of their decisions to adjust to natural hazards. However, few studies have evaluated how risk communication programs affect these risk perceptions. This study evaluates the effects of a small-scale flood risk communication program in the Netherlands, consisting of workshops and focus group discussions. The effects on the workshop participants' (n = 24) and focus group participants' (n = 16) flood risk perceptions were evaluated in a pretest-posttest control group (n = 40) design that focused on two mechanisms of attitude change-direct personal experience and attitude polarization. We expected that (H1) workshop participants would show greater shifts in their flood risk perceptions compared with control group participants and that (H2) focus groups would rather produce the conditions for attitude polarization (shifts toward more extreme attitudinal positions after group discussion). However, the results provide only modest support for these hypotheses, perhaps because of a mismatch between the sessions' contents and the risk perception measures. An important contribution of this study is that it examined risk perception data by both conventional tests of the mean differences and tests for attitude polarization. Moreover, the possibility that attitude polarization could cause people to confirm their preexisting (hazard) beliefs could have important implications for risk communication.

Terpstra, T., et al. (2014). "You Have Been Framed! How Antecedents of Information Need Mediate the Effects of Risk Communication Messages." Risk Analysis 34(8): 1506-1520.	This study investigates the processes that mediate the effects of framing flood risks on people's information needs. Insight into the effects of risk frames is important for developing balanced risk communication that explains both risks and benefits of living near water. The research was inspired by the risk information seeking and processing model and related models. In a web-based survey, respondents (n = 1,457) were randomly assigned to one of three communication frames or a control frame (experimental conditions). Each frame identically explained flood risk and additionally refined the message by emphasizing climate change, the quality of flood risk management, or the amenities of living near water. We tested the extent to which risk perceptions, trust, and affective responses mediate the framing effects on information need. As expected, the frames on average resulted in higher information need than the control frame. Attempts to lower fear appeal by stressing safety or amenities instead of climate change were marginally successful, a phenomenon that is known as a negativity bias. Framing effects were mediated by negative attributes (risk perception and negative affect) but not by positive attributes (trust and positive affect). This finding calls for theoretical refinement. Practically, communication messages will be more effective when they stimulate risk perceptions and evoke negative affect. However, arousal of fear may have unwanted side effects. For instance, fear arousal could lead to lower levels of trust in risk management among citizens. Regular monitoring of citizens' attitudes is important to prevent extreme levels of distrust or cynicism.

Terwel, B. W. (2015). "Public participation under conditions of distrust: invited commentary on ` Effective risk communication and CCS: The road to success in Europe'." Journal of Risk Research 18(6): 692-694.
	
Terwel, B. W., et al. (2009). "Competence-Based and Integrity-Based Trust as Predictors of Acceptance of Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage (CCS)." Risk Analysis 29(8): 1129-1140.	Public trust in organizations that are involved in the management and use of new technologies affects lay judgments about the risks and benefits associated with these technologies. In turn, judgments about risks and benefits influence lay attitudes toward these technologies. The validity of this (indirect) effect of trust on lay attitudes toward new technologies, which is referred to as the causal chain account of trust, has up till now only been examined in correlational research. The two studies reported in this article used an experimental approach to more specifically test the causal chain account of trust in the context of carbon dioxide capture and storage technology (CCS). Complementing existing literature, the current studies explicitly distinguished between two different types of trust in organizations: competence-based trust (Study 1) and integrity-based trust (Study 2). In line with predictions, results showed that the organizational position regarding CCS implementation (pro versus con) more strongly affected people's risk and benefit perceptions and their subsequent acceptance of CCS when competence-based trust was high rather than low. In contrast, the organizational position had a greater impact on people's level of CCS acceptance when integrity-based trust was low rather than high.

Terzian, S. G. and A. L. Grunzke (2007). "Scrambled eggheads: ambivalent representations of scientists in six Hollywood film comedies from 1961 to 1965." Public Understanding of Science 16(4): 407-419.	The American public's longstanding preference for intelligence over intellect informed ambivalent portrayals of American scientists in the postwar era. This essay considers how six popular Hollywood films from a largely neglected genre-comedy-projected ambivalent images of scientists from 1961 to 1965. It argues that scientists were often respected for their intelligence, but were mocked or even feared for their intellect. In the comedic subgenres of the family film and slapstick, scientists who were safely contained at institutions of higher education committed merely social transgressions and became objects of mockery. In the political satire of Dr. Strangelove, however, the direct threat of nuclear annihilation cast the scientist as an object of fear and a real threat to the security of the nation. This discussion of popular comedies thus accounts for an under-studied cultural barometer and powerful medium in the popularization of science.

Terzian, S. G. and L. Shapiro (2015). "Corporate science education: Westinghouse and the value of science in mid-twentieth century America." Public Understanding of Science 24(2): 147-166.	This study examines a largely neglected aspect of the history of science popularization in the United States: corporate depictions of the value of science to society. It delineates the Westinghouse Electric Corporation's portrayals of science to its shareholders, employees and consumers, and schoolchildren and educators during World War Two and the postwar era. Annual reports to shareholders, in-house news publications, publicity records, advertising campaigns, and educational pamphlets distributed to schools reveal the company's distinct, but complementary, messages for different stakeholders about the importance of science to American society. Collectively, Westinghouse encouraged these audiences to rely on scientists' expert leadership for their nation's security and material comforts. In an era of military mobilization, the company was able to claim that industry-led scientific research would fortify the nation and create unbounded prosperity.

Thacker, S., et al. (2017). "Geographic Hotspots of Critical National Infrastructure." Risk Analysis 37(12): 2490-2505.	Failure of critical national infrastructures can result in major disruptions to society and the economy. Understanding the criticality of individual assets and the geographic areas in which they are located is essential for targeting investments to reduce risks and enhance system resilience. Within this study we provide new insights into the criticality of real-life critical infrastructure networks by integrating high-resolution data on infrastructure location, connectivity, interdependence, and usage. We propose a metric of infrastructure criticality in terms of the number of users who may be directly or indirectly disrupted by the failure of physically interdependent infrastructures. Kernel density estimation is used to integrate spatially discrete criticality values associated with individual infrastructure assets, producing a continuous surface from which statistically significant infrastructure criticality hotspots are identified. We develop a comprehensive and unique national-scale demonstration for England and Wales that utilizes previously unavailable data from the energy, transport, water, waste, and digital communications sectors. The testing of 200,000 failure scenarios identifies that hotspots are typically located around the periphery of urban areas where there are large facilities upon which many users depend or where several critical infrastructures are concentrated in one location.

Thakadu, O. T., et al. (2011). "Communicating in the Public Sphere: Attitudes Toward Different Public Instructional Communication Methods." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(1): 83-103.	An effective response to global environmental challenges requires analysis of communication patterns, processes and approaches. In addition, improving communication through emerging information and communication technologies (ICT) also must be explored. Understanding recipients' perception of the innovations used in information diffusion is also necessary. This study, using a sample of 120 subjects, examined attitudes of leaders of community-based natural resources organizations toward two approaches used in public instructional communication in the Okavango Delta, Botswana. The quasi-experimental study also explored the effect of demographic variables on subjects' attitudes. The results demonstrated more favorable attitudes toward the visualized method than the traditional verbal method, suggesting subjects' preference and acceptance for the visualized public instructional communication approaches. Results also indicated a differential effect of age on attitude toward methods of communication. The results of the study highlight the importance for practitioners to use integrated communication approaches in the public sphere. Suggestions for future research are offered.

Thakadu, O. T., et al. (2013). "Predictors of Knowledge-Sharing Behaviors Among Community-Based Natural Resources Organizations in the Okavango Delta, Botswana." Science Communication 35(5): 572-602.	The study investigated the relative contribution of selected predictors of knowledge-sharing behaviors among local community leaders involved in natural resources management programs within the Okavango Delta, Botswana. The theory of reasoned action and the responsible environmental behavior framework guided the study. Thirteen community-based natural resources management projects' boards of trust, comprising a total of 120 subjects, participated in a quasi-experimental study. Results indicate that a combination of knowledge, attitude, and locus of control significantly predicts knowledge-sharing intentions, with knowledge and attitudes as the most important predictors. Implications and recommendations for practice are discussed, and directions for future research are suggested.

Thakadu, O. T. and O. S. Tau (2012). "Communicating Environment in the Okavango Delta, Botswana: An Exploratory Assessment of the Sources, Channels, and Approaches Used Among the Delta Communities." Science Communication 34(6): 776-802.	The study explored environmental communication strategies within the Okavango Delta, northwest Botswana. A survey instrument was administered to 120 respondents, randomly sampled across four villages. The findings show that respondents obtain environmental conservation information from diverse source organizations. Agencies use a multimix approach that utilizes different channels of communication, such as mass media and group channels. Statistically significant associations were found among the radio audience by education and among the television audience by age, education, and gender; and no statistically significance association was found between the kgotla group channel and the three demographic variables. Findings suggest that the interventions have promoted proenvironmental behaviors and attitudes among the respondents. Implications for environmental communication practice and directions for future research are discussed.

Thaker, J. (2013). "Constructing Culture of Science: Communication of Science in India and China." Science Communication 35(4): 539-540.
	
Thaker, J., et al. (2017). "Media Use and Public Perceptions of Global Warming in India." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(3): 353-369.	Media plays a vital role in informing the public about environmental threats. Although climate change is a global problem, developing countries such as India are often more vulnerable to the impacts due to poverty, illiteracy, and low public awareness. Using data from a nationally representative survey in India, this paper explores the relationships between media use, issue attention, and trust in informational sources on one hand and science-based climate change beliefs, risk perceptions, and policy support on the other. Results suggest that the Indian media, through consistent and accurate coverage of global warming using trusted sources, can play a positive role in increasing public engagement among a largely unaware population. Implications for climate change communication in India are discussed.

Thalmann, A. T. and P. M. Wiedemann (2006). "Beliefs and emotionality in risk appraisals." Journal of Risk Research 9(5): 453-466.	Many technology debates are characterized by uncertainty in scientific knowledge and emotional discussions between different stakeholders. A considerable amount of information is provided by different stakeholders, emphasizing different views of a controversial subject. This includes, on the one hand, technology-critical information that consists of arguments underlining possible negative effects, such as terrifying diseases, foment fear and concern and, on the other hand, information that supports a certain technology, usually comprising arguments that emphasize its harmlessness. A good example of this type of technology debate is the controversial issue of high-frequency electromagnetic fields (EMF). The questions that arise from a risk-communication perspective are whether different accentuations in risk information-such as one-sided versus balanced arguments-have an impact on a layperson's risk appraisal and whether a layperson's prior beliefs are influenced by unbalanced information. These questions are investigated in a three-factorial experimental study with a between-subjects design. The findings suggest that people have already formed an opinion on the EMF issue. Firstly, these prior beliefs influence their risk judgments and, secondly, highly emotional information polarizes existing beliefs and thereby influences the laypersons' risk appraisals.

Thomas, J. (1997). "Innovations in science and technology education, vol 6 - Jenkins,EW." Public Understanding of Science 6(3): 291-293.
	
Thomas, J. (1998). "Science." Public Understanding of Science 7(3): 257-259.
	
Thomas, J. (1999). "A genetic basis for public enlightenment? A personal view of the Dawkins/Pinker phenomenon." Public Understanding of Science 8(4): 345-351.
	
Thomas, J. (2001). "From global warming to Dolly the sheep: An encyclopedia of social issues in science and technology." Public Understanding of Science 10(2): 244-245.
	
Thomas, T. L., et al. (2016). "Media Coverage of the 2014 West Virginia Elk River Chemical Spill: A Mixed-Methods Study Examining News Coverage of a Public Health Disaster." Science Communication 38(5): 574-600.	This study examined how news media framed West Virginia's 2014 Elk River Chemical Spill, an industrial disaster that began a national discussion about chemical safety. A content analysis of media was conducted to explore disaster coverage. Additionally, in-depth stakeholder interviews were conducted to examine how audiences interpreted and evaluated media coverage. Both content analysis and interview findings highlighted the media's reliance on the attribution of responsibility news frame, which dominated media coverage, although the dominance of particular frames differed according to media channel and time period.

Thompson, J. L. and J. G. Cantrill (2013). "The Symbolic Transformation of Space INTRODUCTION." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(1): 1-3.
	
Thompson, K. M. (2002). "Variability and uncertainty meet risk management and risk communication." Risk Analysis 22(3): 647-654.	In the past decade, the use of probabilistic risk analysis techniques to quantitatively address variability and uncertainty in risks increased in popularity as recommended by the 1994 National Research Council that wrote Science and Judgment in Risk Assessment. Under the 1996 Food Quality Protection Act, for example, the U.S. EPA supported the development of tools that produce distributions of risk demonstrating the variability and/or uncertainty in the results. This paradigm shift away from the use of point estimates creates new challenges for risk managers, who now struggle with decisions about how to use distributions in decision making. The challenges for risk communication, however, have only been minimally explored. This presentation uses the case studies of variability in the risks of dying on the ground from a crashing airplane and from the deployment of motor vehicle airbags to demonstrate how better characterization of variability and uncertainty in the risk assessment lead to better risk communication. Analogies to food safety and environmental risks are also discussed. This presentation demonstrates that probabilistic risk assessment has an impact on both risk management and risk communication, and highlights remaining research issues associated with using improved sensitivity and uncertainty analyses in risk assessment.

Thompson, K. M., et al. (2001). "The risk of groundling fatalities from unintentional airplane crashes." Risk Analysis 21(6): 1025-1037.	The crashes of four hijacked commercial planes on September 11, 2001, and the repeated televised images of the consequent collapse of the World Trade Center and one side of the Pentagon will inevitably change people's perceptions of the mortality risks to people on the ground from crashing airplanes. Goldstein and colleagues were the first to quantify the risk for Americans of being killed on the ground from a crashing airplane for unintentional events, providing average point estimates of 6 in a hundred million for annual risk and 4.2 in a million for lifetime risk. They noted that the lifetime risk result exceeded the commonly used risk management threshold of 1 in a million, and suggested that the risk to "groundlings" could be a useful risk communication tool because (a) it is a man-made risk (b) arising from economic activities (c) from which the victims derive no benefit and (d) exposure to which the victims cannot control. Their results have been used in risk communication. This analysis provides updated estimates of groundling fatality risks from unintentional crashes using more recent data and a geographical information system approach to modeling the population around airports. The results suggest that the average annual risk is now 1.2 in a hundred million and the lifetime risk is now 9 in ten million (below the risk management threshold), Analysis of the variability and uncertainty of this estimate, however, suggests that the exposure to groundling fatality risk varies by about a factor of approximately 100 in the spatial dimension of distance to an airport, with the risk declining rapidly outside the first 2 miles around an airport. We believe that the risk to groundlings from crashing airplanes is more useful in the context of risk communication when information about variability and uncertainty in the risk estimates is characterized, but we suspect that recent events will alter its utility in risk communication.

Thompson, P. B. (2012). "Ethics and Risk Communication." Science Communication 34(5): 618-641.	One source of ethical failure in risk communication lies in the inadequate theoretical understanding of ethically significant assumptions embedded in risk discourses. A second source of failure resides in the way that risk communication serves ethical purposes that come into conflict in particular cases. The ethical motivation for risk communication may be to improve effectiveness of decision making, to empower recipients of a message, or to ensure that exposure to risk is consistent with ethical criteria of informed consent. Philosophical theories of ethics provide a useful way to frame these important differences in emphasis.

Thurs, D. P. (2007). "Tiny tech, transcendent tech - Nanotechnology, science fiction, and the limits of modern science talk." Science Communication 29(1): 65-95.	Images derived from science fiction have been widely used to discuss the emerging science of nanotechnology. Such usage also reflects what it takes to make science noteworthy, interesting, and important. According to journalist Gary Stix, science fiction imagery has helped "to create a fascination with the small that genuine scientists, consciously or not, would later use to draw attention to their work on more mundane but eminently more real projects" (Stix 2001, 36). The vocabulary of sci-fi has ultimately enabled those enthusiastic about nanotechnology to transcend the limits of the popular rhetorical habits put on science and its place in modern culture.

Tinnell, J. (2011). "Scripting Just Sustainability: Through Green Listing Towards Eco-Blogging." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(2): 228-242.	This essay chronicles the author's recent attempt, as a teacher-scholar working in the humanities, to develop an innovative ecopedagogy from his research in cultural theory, environmental rhetoric, and new media. Centered on a project he calls oeco-blogging,o this pedagogy references a broad array of (eco)theoretical approaches including ecocomposition, ecocriticism, ecofeminism, electracy, just sustainability, and green cultural studies. In explaining eco-blogging, the author draws on these theoretical frames to critique established, consumeristic online communications such as green listing. In addition, by featuring an example of eco-blogging from his class, he discusses its value to just sustainability focused pedagogy. Ultimately, the author suggests that eco-blogging is a useful counterpart to other forms of environmental communication online.

Tipa, G. (2009). "Exploring Indigenous Understandings of River Dynamics and River Flows: A Case from New Zealand." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(1): 95-120.	Indigenous communities are particularly sensitive to the use and development of freshwaters, as they hold distinct perspectives on water which reflect their identity, and their custodial obligations to manage tribal waters. Within New Zealand, Maori (the indigenous people) have, for generations, voiced their concerns about the continual modification of waterways within their tribal territories. Until about the mid-nineteenth century, water quality was at the forefront of issues concerning human manipulation of rivers and streams. A range of new issues then arose that were increasingly concerned with reduced river flows. Of the many techniques developed to address these issues, many rely heavily on professional expertise and objective, scientific philosophies, which often fail to recognize cultural values, and benefit from cultural knowledge. This essay presents examples of the knowledge of streams and rivers held within Maori communities that could benefit contemporary resource management if it can be determined how cultural knowledge and practices and scientific approaches can be communicated and integrated.

Tobias, R. (2016). "Communication About Micropollutants in Drinking Water: Effects of the Presentation and Psychological Processes." Risk Analysis 36(10): 2011-2026.	This study investigates how people change their risk perception, trust, and behavior as a consequence of being informed about the occurrence of micropollutants in drinking water. Micropollutants are substances present in extremely low concentrations that might be dangerous in higher concentrations. Data were gathered in the city of Zurich, Switzerland in 2013 using a questionnaire in which the information on micropollutants was presented differently to 12 experimental groups. Data of the key constructs were gathered before and after this information, so that causal effects could be quantified by regression analyses. Affective reactions to the information turned out to be the critical mediator of changes in risk perception (operationalized as the perceived change of quality due to pollution), which is an important determinant of changes in behavior and trust. Also, direct effects of affective reactions on behavior and trust were observed. Trust before appraising risks reduces negative affective reactions; however, it also reduces perceived quality (i.e., increases risk perception) and trust after risks are appraised. The different forms of information mainly influenced the participants' affective reactions, but they also influenced perceived quality. The presentation with the least negative effects was a comparison of the intake of the substance by water with intake by food. The experimental design with repeated measurement that considers trust as a determinant and consequence of risk perception uncovered positive and negative effects of trust before appraising risks on changes of risk perception and trust due to appraising risks.

Todd, A. M. (2010). "Anthropocentric Distance in National Geographic's Environmental Aesthetic." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(2): 206-224.	Tourism is the way we understand the world: tourists travel in an increasingly mediated environment in which ubiquitous promotional material and other popular artifacts employ stunning images and romantic travel narratives to describe local environments. Tourist texts osello local landscapes to entice visitors, employing an environmental aesthetic that urges travel. With its mission to oexplore the planet,o the National Geographic Society contributes to this tourist aesthetic. This essay examines three special issues on Africa simultaneously published by the National Geographic Society: its official journal, National Geographic, and its sister magazines, National Geographic Traveler, and National Geographic Adventure. The photographic images and travel narratives in these tourist texts produce an environmental aesthetic that positions the traveler at the center of these environments. This essay first analyzes how National Geographic constructs Africa's environmental landscapes. These magazines depict Africa as a vast desert plain, a wilderness theme park, and a part of the global scenery. The second part of the analysis examines how National Geographic locates the tourist in these environments. I discuss how National Geographic positions the tourist as protagonist, expert, and hero of Africa's environment. In the conclusions, I argue this environmental aesthetic renders Africa invisible through anthropocentric distance, and I discuss the need for more critical readings of tourist discourse.

Todt, O., et al. (2009). "Consumer attitudes and the governance of food safety." Public Understanding of Science 18(1): 103-114.	This paper reports the analysis of a recent study of public perception of food safety governance in Spain, using genetically modified (GM) foods as an indicator. The data make clear that Spanish food consumers are aware of their rights and role in the marketplace. They are critical of current regulatory decision making, which they perceive to be unduly influenced by certain social actors, such as industry. In contrast, consumers demand decisions to be based primarily on scientific opinion, as well as consumer preferences. They want authorities to facilitate informed purchasing decisions, and favor labeling of GM foods mostly on the grounds of their right to know. However, consumers' actual level of knowledge with respect to food technology and food safety remains low. There are several ambivalences as to the real impact of these attitudes on actual consumer behavior (specifically when it comes to organizing themselves or searching out background information).

Toner, M. (2007). "The republican war on science." Science Communication 28(4): 526-528.
	
Toner, M. (2009). "Decoding the Heavens." Science Communication 31(1): 130-131.
	
Tong, J. R. (2014). "Environmental Risks in Newspaper Coverage: A Framing Analysis of Investigative Reports on Environmental Problems in 10 Chinese Newspapers." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(3): 345-367.	Economic modernization has been China's national priority since the establishment of the People's Republic. Since the authorities retain control over the media, which is also now subject to commercial influences, it might be expected that the Chinese news media would construct a discourse of assurance, endorsing economic modernization. A framing analysis of newspaper investigative reports on environmental problems in this article, however, shows that these reports have portrayed environmental problems in a manner that opposes rather than supports the national priority for economic growth. It challenges rather than reinforces the current institutional discourse of development and criticizes rather than contributes to the present structure of the capitalist mode of production in China. In this case, the prominence of the critical reflective discourse demonstrates the critical role investigative journalism potentially plays in arousing the public's awareness of risks in order to create a society in which such risks can be minimized. Factors in the wider social context contribute to our understanding of the critical discourse of environmental problems.

Tong, J. R. (2015). "Being Objective With a Personal Perspective: How Environmental Journalists at Two Chinese Newspapers Articulate and Practice Objectivity." Science Communication 37(6): 747-768.	This article examines what objectivity means to 15 environmental journalists at two Chinese newspapers and how this value guides their practices. It reveals that although objectivity is central to their journalistic ethos, the participants see it as ethical to organize reports within a framework arising from their personal judgments of news events. The appropriation and particular definition of the American journalistic norm of objectivity increases the participants' political safety and justifies them in playing their perceived role as guardians of society and educators. In so doing, they negotiate with other social actors and consolidate their cultural authority over defining reality.

Torgersen, H. (2002). "Austria and the transatlantic agricultural biotechnology divide." Science Communication 24(2): 173-183.	In contrast to shifts in other European countries in the late 1990s, the Austrian position on agricultural biotechnology has remained constant over the past decade. Although Austria's position was initially considered restrictive in comparison, developments elsewhere narrowed the gap, and the European Commission adopted measures that Austria had endorsed for a long time. Taking Austria as an example, this article considers some frequent explanations for the transatlantic divide in agricultural biotechnology that emphasize the link between public opinion and policy. Such explanations stress nongovernmental organizations and media campaigns triggering technophobia among an uninformed public, governments giving in to public pressure and abandoning sound science, and protectionism in agricultural policy that prevents free trade. While not entirely to be dismissed, there also are arguments against a cause-effect relationship between public pressure and policy. Differences in the perceived roles of agriculture seem more important, however.

Torgersen, H. and J. Hampel (2012). "Calling controversy: assessing synthetic biology's conflict potential." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 134-148.	Will synthetic biology elicit controversies similar to those of genetically modified crops before? Maybe, but where exactly are the analogies, and how can we gain substantial insights rather than mere guesses? We argue that as well as the intrinsic properties of the technologies at stake, the context of their implementation is decisive. To assess mechanisms of past and potential controversies, an investigative tool is presented. The Gate Resonance model, derived from older models of societal conflict, allows the identification of key elements of conflict generating processes. In monitoring the developing debate on synthetic biology using this model, analogies to the case of genetically modified crops appear less convincing. So far, there are only few indications that a controversy is imminent.

Torgersen, H. and F. Seifert (1997). "Aversion preceding rejection: Results of the Eurobarometer survey 39.1 on biotechnology and genetic engineering in Austria." Public Understanding of Science 6(2): 131-142.	In late 1994, we performed a representative survey on attitudes to biotechnology and genetic engineering in Austria using the questionnaire applied in the Eurobarometer survey 39.1 of 1993. The results showed that support for genetic engineering in Austria was low compared to support in the rest of Europe. However, risks were perceived as being comparatively low, and the demand for government control was below average. Together with the very low level of knowledge and the reluctant optimism towards new technologies, the data suggested that, in Austria, the low level of acceptance might have been influenced by a conservative attitude to new technology rather than by any developed perception of the associated risk. However, when in 1996 the first releases of genetically modified organisms in Austria triggered widespread rejection, this was accompanied by a growing awareness of risk. Thus a more or less unreflected aversion to biotechnology seemed to precede risk perception in Austria.

Torio, J. J. E. and C. L. Tam (2018). "Indigenous Power Struggles in the Peruvian Amazon: A Spatio-cultural Analysis of Communication." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(4): 480-494.	It is well established that external national policies and internal ethnic politics contribute to indigenous power struggles that create a disharmonious indigenous voice. The purpose of this paper is to interrogate how such fissures intersect with internal, covert communication forces embedded in indigenous communities. Based on a case study of Peru's national indigenous Amazonian organization Asociacion Interetnica de Desarrollo de la Selva Peruana (AIDESEP or the Interethnic Association for the Development of the Peruvian Rainforest), the authors advance a geographical perspective of communication to interrogate the physical and social spaces that contribute to and fragment indigenous public spheres, drawing from a content analysis of interviews and news media reports. The aim is to analyse how powerinfluenced by the spatio-cultural effects on communicationdivided a national indigenous voice following Peru's 2009 Amazon conflict.

Torres-Albero, C., et al. (2011). "Dissemination practices in the Spanish research system: scientists trapped in a golden cage." Public Understanding of Science 20(1): 12-25.	The aim of this paper is twofold. On the one hand, it offers a systematic analysis of the data available regarding Spanish scientists' dissemination activities; on the other, it seeks to shed light on their behaviour and motivations. To do this, we consider the context of Spanish society and the conditions affecting the work and professional promotion of scientists. We present evidence from two surveys of CSIC researchers and of participants in Spain's main science fair, with the caveat that the data were obtained in a methodologically favourable scenario. A contrast exists between scientists' vocation to disseminate and the limitations derived from a low degree of interest in science in Spanish society, together with professional promotion policies that do not give priority to dissemination activities. This leads us to conclude that Spanish scientists are trapped between dissemination activities governed by moral values and a scarcely favourable social and professional context.

Torres-Hostench, O., et al. (2015). "Machine Translation Discussed With Young People." Science Communication 37(6): 795-804.	The aim of the Fira de Recerca en Directe 2015 (Live Research Fair) held at the Barcelona science museum CosmoCaixa is to encourage young people in our country to take up scientific careers. At each stand, students were presented with a scientific enigma and were encouraged to find the answer to it through conversations with researchers and through experiments using laboratory equipment. At the Tradumatica Research Group's stand, we presented research we have been carrying out in Machine Translation (MT) and MT postediting. Traditionally, scientific outreach programs have a unidirectional format from researchers to the citizenry. However, our experiences at the Fair on the perception young people have of MT clearly show a bidirectional interaction between researchers and the young people, and this experience helped us come up with ideas to improve our research.

Tortosa-Edo, V., et al. (2016). "Antecedent factors of the need for information regarding petrochemical complex hazards." Journal of Risk Research 19(2): 135-152.
	
Tortosa-Edo, V., et al. (2014). "The antecedent role of personal environmental values in the relationships among trust in companies, information processing and risk perception." Journal of Risk Research 17(8): 1019-1035.	Trust and risk perception are important issues for industries such as petrochemical companies, typically considered 'less trustworthy' because of the hazards associated with their activities. In this context, individual's trust in companies may have influence on information processing mode that individual adopts to reach a judgement such as risk perception associated with industrial hazards. We take the heuristic-systematic theory (HSM) as the model for processing information about industrial risk, with trust in companies as its antecedent and risk perception as its consequence. However, this process may be influenced by factors such as personal specific values. This paper analyses, to our knowledge for the first time, the antecedent role of personal values towards environmental issues in the HSM of information processing. The model was tested using data from interviews with 992 residents in an area of the province of Castell (Spain) close to a petrochemical complex. Structured equation models were used to analyse the data. The results demonstrate the proposed relationships. The main contribution of this paper is the corroboration of the direct and indirect effects of personal environmental values on the variables that make up the trust in companies-HSM of information processing-risk perception sequence. Finally, we recommend that the companies of the petrochemical complex consider the frank, open and bidirectional communication with the residents as the key element to break the association among pro-environmental values, distrust in the companies and perception of the risk.

Tosse, S. E. (2013). "Aiming for Social or Political Robustness? Media Strategies Among Climate Scientists." Science Communication 35(1): 32-55.	This study examines climate scientists' views on media science communication and their strategies for dealing with journalists and climate deniers. Drawing on scholarly calls for openness and public engagement, particularly the concept of "socially robust knowledge," this article discusses how climate scientists weigh concerns of control, openness, and transparency when considering how to best communicate with the public through the mass media. The author argues that "socially robust knowledge" neglects the challenges of "medialization" of climate science and proposes that the climate scientists' strategy can better be described as attempts to achieve "politically robust" communication.

Tourenq, S., et al. (2017). "Risk communication policy design: Cyprus compared to France and the Netherlands." Journal of Risk Research 20(4): 533-550.	This study aims at analyzing differences between risk communication policies in Cyprus, compared to the Netherlands, and France. It analyzes risk communication policies indirectly through a qualitative analysis of the information provided by official websites, which are considered to be proxies of these policies. The websites review will focus on the type of the information disclosed online, and the similarities and differences between the websites, regarding the information provided, the way it is communicated, the backing on credible sources, and the supplying of more information if desired, but also simply through the presenting of the WebPages. The results indicate that the Netherlands and France have created risk dedicated websites besides the ministries' websites with information on risks, prevention and the authorities' actions. There is a gap between strategies. The Dutch strategy is to give more responsibilities to the public, by encouraging individuals to be resilient and responsible for their own safety at a certain level by promoting preventive behaviors. The French strategy is to provide risk-dedicated information to the public, also on prevention and government actions. Opposed to this, the Cypriot authorities simply avoid this strategic question by confining the risk communication to the crisis phase, without entrusting people with a role in risk management, and by strictly one-directional communication, with government delivering and the public digesting (or not). Suggestions for risk communication policy development are discussed.

Tranter, B. and L. Lester (2017). "Climate patriots? Concern over climate change and other environmental issues in Australia." Public Understanding of Science 26(6): 738-752.	Echoing the anti-pollution and resource conservation campaigns in the United States in the early-to-mid-twentieth century, some scholars advocate mobilising support for environmental issues by harnessing the notion of environmental patriotism. Taking action to reduce the impact of global warming has also been cast as a patriotic cause. Drawing upon quantitative data from a recent national survey, we examine the link between patriotism and environmental attitudes in Australia, focussing upon climate change. We find that patriotism has a largely neutral association with concern over environmental issues, with the exception of climate change and, to a lesser extent, wildlife preservation. Expressing concern over climate change appears to be unpatriotic for some Australians. Even after controlling for political party identification and other important correlates of environmental issue concerns, patriots are less likely than others to prioritise climate change as their most urgent environmental issue and less likely to believe that climate change is actually occurring.

Traore, N. and R. Landry (1997). "On the determinants of scientists' collaboration." Science Communication 19(2): 124-140.	The research reported in this article is a methodological departure front prior studies on scientific collaboration in two ways. First, the sample of the study included scientists from all types of research. Second, the study uses an econometric framework to examine the factors that affect scientists' collaborative activities. The results bolster the contention that scientists' collaboration is motivated by strategic and organisational, as well as operational, considerations. Furthermore, since operational and organizational collaborations both increase collaborative productivity as suggested by the results, they should be enhanced by promoting collaboration (1) on the basis of intellectual closeness, (2) within the realm of research teams or groups, and (3) on a long-term basis with industry.

Treise, D., et al. (2003). "Cultivating the science Internet audience - Impact of brand and domain on source credibility for science information." Science Communication 24(3): 309-332.	This two-part study examines factors that can influence the perceived credibility of a science Web site. In the first part, respondents answered questions about their perceptions of science sites with the .com and .gov domain. Findings suggest that sites with a .gov domain are perceived to be more credible. Part 2 is an experiment in which respondents read a short science article from a site. Participants were randomly assigned to experimental conditions in which they were led to believe the site was from either a high- or moderate-credibility source and from a domain that contained either a .gov or .com extension. Ratings of the author source, and the article were systematically influenced by the manipulations. Implications for science Web sites are presented in the discussion.

Treise, D. and M. F. Weigold (2002). "Advancing science communication - A survey of science communicators." Science Communication 23(3): 310-322.	Scholars of science communication have identified many issues that may help to explain why science communication is not as "effective" as it could be. This article presents results from an exploratory study that consisted of an open-ended survey of science writers, editors, and science communication researchers. Results suggest that practitioners share many issues of concern to scholars. Implications are that a clear agenda for science communication research now exists and that empirical research is needed to, improve the practice of communicating science.

Tremayne, M. and S. Dunwoody (2001). "Interactivity, information processing, and learning on the World Wide Web." Science Communication 23(2): 111-134.	This study examines the role of interactivity in the presentation of science news on the World Wide Web. The authors propose and testa model of interactive information processing that suggests a relationship between interactivity, cognitive elaboration, and learning. A think-aloud method was employed to provide insight into study participants' mental processes during Web use.

Trench, B. (2012). "The Theoretical Problems of Scientific Vulgarization." Public Understanding of Science 21(6): 777-778.
	
Triunfol, M. L. and P. J. Hines (2004). "Dynamics of list-server discussion on genetically modified foods." Public Understanding of Science 13(2): 155-175.	Computer-mediated discussion lists, or list-servers, are popular tools in settings ranging from professional to personal to educational. A discussion list on genetically modified food (GMF) was created in September 2000 as part of the Forum on Genetically Modified Food developed by Science Controversies: Online Partnerships in Education (SCOPE), an educational project that uses computer resources to aid research and learning around unresolved scientific questions. The discussion list "GMF-Science" was actively supported from January 2001 to May 2002. The GMF-Science list welcomed anyone interested in discussing the controversies surrounding GMF. Here, we analyze the dynamics of the discussions and how the GMF-Science list may contribute to learning. Activity on the GMF-Science discussion list reflected some but not all of the controversies that were appearing in more traditional publication formats, broached other topics not well represented in the published literature, and tended to leave undiscussed the more technical research developments.

Trocco, F. (1998). "Why people believe weird things: Pseudoscience, superstition, and other confusions of our time." Public Understanding of Science 7(2): 187-193.
	
Trosko, J. E., et al. (1994). "The Role of Modulated Gap Junctional Intercellular Communication in Epigenetic Toxicology." Risk Analysis 14(3): 303-312.	The normal development and health of all multicellular organisms, inclucling the human being, depend on the adaptive maintenance of the integrity of the genetic information (e.g., DNA protective and repair mechanisms), as well as of the homeostatic and cybernetic regulatory systems within and between tissues. The primary focus of the past and current toxicological studies and risk assessment practices has been to ascertain and predict the ''genotoxicity'' of various physical and chemical agents. The paradigm of ''carcinogen as mutagen,'' while valuable for stimulating studies of the detection of mutagens and of their potential role in ''causing'' somatic and germ line diseases, has tended to blunt research on the role of nongenotoxic mechanisms in disease causation. This brief analysis will emphasize the need to consider the role of modulated gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) in any biological risk assessment model. It is based on the following assumptions and facts. Because gap junctions exist in all metazoans, they have been associated with the regulation of cell proliferation, development, differentiation, and the adaptive function of both excitable and nonexcitable coupled cells. A highly evolutionarily conserved family of genes codes for proteins (connexins), which, as hexameric units (connexons), form membrane-associated channels of gap junctions. Cells coupled by gap junctions will have their ions and small regulatory molecules equilibrated. Regulation of GJIC can be at the transcriptional, translational, or posttranslational levels. Transient down or up regulation of GJIC can be induced by endogenous or exogenous chemicals via many mechanisms at any of these three levels. Stable abnormal regulation has been associated with activated oncogenes, and normal regulation has been associated with several tumor suppressor genes. The dysfunction of these gap junctions might play a role in the actions of various toxic chemicals that have cell type/tissue/organ specificity. This could bring about distinct clinical consequences, such as embryo lethality or teratogenesis, reproductive dysfunction in the gonads, neurotoxicity of the central nervous system, hyperplasia of the skin, and tumor promotion of initiated tissue. Modulation of GJIC should be viewed as a scientific basis of ''epigenetic toxicology'' because the alteration of intercellular communication would alter the internal physiological state of the cell. The inhibition of GJIC is a necessary component of mitogenesis (a necessary component of the multistage carcinogenic process). The modulation of GJIC can have both toxicological, as well as therapeutic potential.

Trumbo, C. (1998). "Communication channels and risk information - A cost-utility model." Science Communication 20(2): 190-203.	Studies of risk communication examining channels emphasize the mass versus interpersonal dichotomy. This approach has not produced entirely consistent results and has neglected to consider other potential attributes of channels. This article presents and evaluates a model featuring cost and expected utility as fundamental aspects of communication channels. Within a case involving risk communication, people are shown to relate channel cost and expected utility to their evaluation of channel usefulness. Recommendations are made for how these concepts might be developed in future research.

Trumbo, C., et al. (2011). "The Effect of Proximity to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on Subsequent Hurricane Outlook and Optimistic Bias." Risk Analysis 31(12): 1907-1918.	This study evaluated how individuals living on the Gulf Coast perceived hurricane risk after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. It was hypothesized that hurricane outlook and optimistic bias for hurricane risk would be associated positively with distance from the Katrina-Rita landfall (more optimism at greater distance), controlling for historically based hurricane risk and county population density, demographics, individual hurricane experience, and dispositional optimism. Data were collected in January 2006 through a mail survey sent to 1,375 households in 41 counties on the coast (n = 824, 60% response). The analysis used hierarchal regression to test hypotheses. Hurricane history and population density had no effect on outlook; individuals who were male, older, and with higher household incomes were associated with lower risk perception; individual hurricane experience and personal impacts from Katrina and Rita predicted greater risk perception; greater dispositional optimism predicted more optimistic outlook; distance had a small effect but predicted less optimistic outlook at greater distance (model R(2) = 0.21). The model for optimistic bias had fewer effects: age and community tenure were significant; dispositional optimism had a positive effect on optimistic bias; distance variables were not significant (model R(2) = 0.05). The study shows that an existing measure of hurricane outlook has utility, hurricane outlook appears to be a unique concept from hurricane optimistic bias, and proximity has at most small effects. Future extension of this research will include improved conceptualization and measurement of hurricane risk perception and will bring to focus several concepts involving risk communication.

Trumbo, C. W. (1996). "Examining psychometrics and polarization in a single-risk case study." Risk Analysis 16(3): 429-438.	This project incorporates two steps. First, the psychometric model of risk perception is evaluated for its validity under field conditions. Second, individuals are classified as risk amplifiers or attenuators and the characteristics of those groups are explored. Survey data from an ongoing case study is employed in the analysis. The case study involves a Midwestern community in which a controversy exists over the possibility of the existence of a cancer cluster caused by the operation of a small reactor. Results show that the psychometric model of risk perception, while failing to be reproduced precisely, does has utility under the field conditions in this study. Use of the psychometric model to classify individuals as risk amplifiers or risk attenuators produces a useful dichotomy that reveals differences between the two polar groups in terms of demographics, satisfaction with institutional response to the risk, concern over individual and social levels of risk, and the evaluation of various communication channels as having been useful in coming to a judgment about the risk. A final model comparing the two groups suggests that, in this case, evaluation of personal risk and satisfaction with institutional response are important determinants of individual's risk reactions. Subordinate to these forces are the demographic variables of education, gender, and years of residence in the community. The model also illustrates that aggregate-level observations may not be representative of subgroups.

Trumbo, C. W. (1999). "Heuristic-systematic information processing and risk judgment." Risk Analysis 19(3): 391-400.	The heuristic-systematic information processing model (HSM) holds that individuals will use one or both of these modes of information processing when attempting to evaluate information in order to arrive at a judgment. Systematic processing is defined by effortful scrutiny and comparison of information, whereas heuristic processing is defined by the use of cues to arrive more easily at a judgment. Antecedents to the two processing modes include information sufficiency, motivation, and self-efficacy. Structural equation modeling is used to examine competing configuration of this model and to evaluate the model as appropriate for predicting risk judgment. The model also is evaluated across three groups that vary with respect to their level of concern. These analyses are executed within a case study involving an epidemiological investigation of a suspected cancer cluster. The analysis confirms the HSM's theoretically proposed structure and shows it to be a useful vehicle for evaluating risk judgment. In the overall analysis, antecedent variables generally function as specified by theory. Systematic processing is predicted by greater motivation. Heuristic processing is predicted by information sufficiency. Self-efficacy is a significant predictor of both processing modes. And heuristic processing is shown to be associated with judgment of less risk. However, when the analysis is contrasted across three groups (those concerned about cancer, not concerned and uncertain) it is shown that the model is significantly more robust for the uncertain group. This finding may have implications for the use of the HSM in risk research specifically, and in field research generally.

Trumbo, C. W., et al. (1998). "Journalists, cognition, and the presentation of an epidemiologic study." Science Communication 19(3): 238-265.	Cognitive processes can inform an understanding of newswork. In this case study, the authors examine a growing literature relating cognitive theories to newsmaking and then apply some of the principles in that literature to media coverage of EPA-mandated reformulated gasoline in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In an analysis of how local Milwaukee television news presented an epidemiologic study answering health complaints associated with the gasoline additive, the authors find a number of cognitive processes at work, especially those involving bias and error Finally, the authors consider implications of such processes for newsmaking.

Trumbo, C. W. and K. A. McComas (2003). "The function of credibility in information processing for risk perception." Risk Analysis 23(2): 343-353.	This study examines how credibility affects the way people process information and how they subsequently perceive risk. Three conceptual areas are brought together in this analysis: the psychometric model of risk perception, Eagly and Chaiken's heuristic-systematic information processing model, and Meyer's credibility index. Data come from a study of risk communication in the circumstance of state health department investigations of suspected cancer clusters (five cases, N = 696). Credibility is assessed for three information sources: state health departments, citizen groups, and industries involved-in each case. Higher credibility for industry and the state directly predicts lower risk perception, whereas high credibility for citizen groups predicts greater risk perception. A path model shows that perceiving high credibility for industry and state-and perceiving low credibility for citizen groups-promotes heuristic processing, which in turn is a strong predictor of lower risk perception. Alternately, perceiving industry and the state to have low credibility also promotes greater systematic processing, which consistently leads to perception of greater risk. Between a one-fifth and one-third of the effect of credibility on risk perception is shown to be indirectly transmitted through information processing.

Trumbo, C. W., et al. (2008). "Individual- and community-level effects on risk perception in cancer cluster investigations." Risk Analysis 28(1): 161-178.	This article focuses on the relative influence of individual versus community effects on risk perception. The study is grounded in literature examining how individuals manage information and make risk judgments in the context of suspected environmental cancer threats. We focus on three individual-level perspectives: the psychometric model of risk perception, an adaptation of the heuristic-systematic information processing model, and cancer anxiety. We also evaluate five sets of community-level variables that frame cancer cluster investigations: demographic, epidemiologic, sociologic, etiologic, and pathologic. Data were collected through a mail survey of 30 communities in which cancer cluster investigations were being conducted. Response rates averaged 43%, with 1,111 records in the final data set. Through multilevel modeling and other techniques, the results show that the individual-level model developed in previous work remains a robust description of risk perception in these cases. However, the analysis also shows that the community-level measures neither improve the individual-level model nor offer any substantial explanatory power of their own. We provisionally conclude that, within the context of cancer cluster investigations, risk perception is a phenomenon located in a common psychological dimension that is substantially independent of contextual influences. We also suggest that risk communication efforts in this specific context might successfully draw from a common approach informed more by individual than community factors.

Trumbo, C. W., et al. (2016). "A Cognitive-Affective Scale for Hurricane Risk Perception." Risk Analysis 36(12): 2233-2246.	The aim of this study was to develop a reliable and valid measure of hurricane risk perception. The utility of such a measure lies in the need to understand how people make decisions when facing an evacuation order. This study included participants located within a 15-mile buffer of the Gulf and southeast Atlantic U.S. coasts. The study was executed as a three-wave panel with mail surveys in 2010-2012 (T-0 baseline N = 629, 56%; T-1 retention N = 427, 75%; T-2 retention N = 350, 89%). An inventory based on the psychometric model was developed to discriminate cognitive and affective perceptions of hurricane risk, and included open-ended responses to solicit additional concepts in the T-0 survey. Analysis of the T-0 data modified the inventory and this revised item set was fielded at T-1 and then replicated at T-2. The resulting scales were assessed for validity against existing measures for perception of hurricane risk, dispositional optimism, and locus of control. A measure of evacuation expectation was also examined as a dependent variable, which was significantly predicted by the new measures. The resulting scale was found to be reliable, stable, and largely valid against the comparison measures. Despite limitations involving sample size, bias, and the strength of some reliabilities, it was concluded that the measure has potential to inform approaches to hurricane preparedness efforts and advance planning for evacuation messages, and that the measure has good promise to generalize to other contexts in natural hazards as well as other domains of risk.

Trumbo, C. W. and J. Shanahan (2000). "Social research on climate change: where we have been, where we are, and where we might go." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 199-204.
	
Trumbo, C. W., et al. (2001). "Use of E-mail and the Web by science writers." Science Communication 22(4): 347-378.	The authors report data from two surveys of the National Association of Science Writers conducted in 1994 and 1999 to investigate e-mail and Web use by science journalists. Results show that task and social e-mail use have expanded dramatically. Also. the Web has become a regular pan of science journalism. Enthusiasm for the use of the Web is a function of a positive orientation toward the quality of Web information. trust in the sources behind Web information, and individual characteristics of connectedness. The authors conclude with qualitative interviews with five science writers who provide supporting anecdotal evidence.

Trumbo, J. (1999). "Visual literacy and science communication." Science Communication 20(4): 409-425.	Images of science are evident throughout the media, with new technologies playing an important role in allowing the creation of science representation by communication practitioners, scientists, and the public. The role of visual literacy as a key ingredient in the effective communication of science among expert and lay audiences is explored, and a framework for addressing visual literacy is suggested. Visual literacy is defined in this context as a holistic construct that includes visual thinking, visual learning, and visual communication.

Trumbo, J. (2000). "Essay: Seeing science - Research opportunities in the visual communication of science." Science Communication 21(4): 379-391.	This article explores some of the issues associated with the visual communication of science and emphasizes the important role of research in contributing to public understanding of visual science. The visual literacy requirements of scientists and science communicators are highlighted through in-person interviews. This article also suggests a number of research opportunities based on the scenarios that are described. Two areas of interest-visual literacy and collaborative approaches to science communication-are emphasized.

Trutnevyte, E. and O. Ejderyan (2018). "Managing geoenergy-induced seismicity with society." Journal of Risk Research 21(10): 1287-1294.	Contemporary and future low-carbon energy supply requires using the deep underground. Ample evidence shows that onshore oil and gas extraction, associated wastewater injection, deep geothermal systems, and carbon capture and storage can induce damaging seismicity. While induced seismicity exhibits symptoms of a potentially controversial issue, research today has been limited to seismic hazard and risk. Here we argue for the need of social scientific insights to inform risk communication and processes of managing geoenergy-induced seismicity with society.

Tschida, D. A. (2012). "Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency: Constructing "Certainty" as Rebuttal." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 6(4): 477-493.	Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency was the first Supreme Court opinion generated specifically as a response to the issue of anthropogenic CO2 emissions, alleging that Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) failure to regulate is leading to environmental harms for plaintiffs. This essay examines the majority opinion of Justice Stevens and his use of presumption and burden of proof, within a logic of problematic integration, to construct certainty as a rebuttal to and rejection of the uncertainty offered by EPA. I examine how this strategically constructed rebuttal to uncertainty functions as a declarative act of certainty, advancing a proposition whose scientific, legal, or political acceptance could function as a tipping point away from the claims of uncertainty used by opponents on this contentious issue. Because of the court's influence, the implications of their certainty extend beyond the case and into the broader discussion of climate change science and environmental communication.

Tsfati, Y., et al. (2011). "The Influence of Presumed Media Influence on News About Science and Scientists." Science Communication 33(2): 143-166.	According to the authors, much of media coverage of science and scientists is explained by scientists' beliefs regarding the impact of appearing in media on their careers. Their argument rests on recent advances in communication theory, stressing "the influence of presumed media influence," and contributes to our understanding of why some scientists receive more media coverage than others. Combined data from a survey of scholars in an Israeli research university (n = 166) and content analysis data on the frequency of the scholars' appearances in the media were used to test this argument. Structural equation modeling revealed that the scholars' belief in the influence of media increased their motivation and efforts to obtain media coverage, which in turn was related to the number of their actual media appearances.

Tupasela, A. (2007). "Re-examining medical modernization: framing the public in Finnish biomedical research policy." Public Understanding of Science 16(1): 63-78.	Despite recent evidence that suggests that knowledge production within the medical community is increasingly based on knowledge-making coalitions or what some have called the co-production of knowledge, there remains a strong expert led policy agenda in many countries in relation to human genome research. This article reports on the role of experts in defining the scope of discussion in relation to the biomedical use of human tissue sample collections or biobanks in Finland using the case of the Genome Information Center. It is argued that the rhetorical strategies should not be understood simply as subversive tactics, but rather as ways of engaging the public within particular contexts of creating commercial expectations and visions which are easier to negotiate from a policy perspective.

Turbil, C. (2017). "Paolo Mantegazza and the dream of 'making' science popular circa 1860-1900." Public Understanding of Science 26(5): 627-631.
	
Turcanu, C., et al. (2014). "Public participation processes related to nuclear research installations: What are the driving factors behind participation intention?" Public Understanding of Science 23(3): 331-347.	This article addresses organised public participation processes related to installations for nuclear research. The aim was to determine predictors that could provide an empirical insight into the motivations underlying people's intended level of involvement. The results highlight attitude towards participation and moral norm as the strongest predictors for participation intention. Other significant predictors were time constraints, attitude towards nuclear energy, subjective and descriptive norms, and knowledge. An opposing relationship is noted between participation intention and attitude towards nuclear energy. At the same time, people who are more knowledgeable about the nuclear domain seem more willing to get involved. The analysis also revealed that financial benefits do not influence people's intended involvement in participation processes related to nuclear research installations. The results reported here are based on empirical data from a large-scale public opinion survey (N = 1020) carried out in Belgium during May-June 2011.

Turner, B. J., et al. (1998). "The effectiveness of demonstrations in disseminating research-based counseling programs." Science Communication 19(4): 349-365.	This study explores whether a demonstration designed to persuade addiction treatment agencies to adopt a research-based treatment program and to evaluate the program under field conditions was a successful dissemination strategy. The results suggest that a demonstration, as one component of an ongoing dissemination plan, may be useful in persuading community treatment agencies to investigate a research-based treatment program However agencies may not adopt a counseling program following a demonstration without first testing it themselves.

Turner, G. (2016). "Celebrities and the environment: the limits to their power." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(6): 811-814.
	
Turner, J. Z. (1998). "I don't want to see the pictures: science writing and the visibility of animal experiments." Public Understanding of Science 7(1): 27-40.	The use of animals in research and development is one of the areas of science (human reproductive research and technology is perhaps another) where the fact that current practices are sanctioned in legislation does not prevent them from being controversial. This article examines the visibility of this issue in terms of the way science writers and scientific research papers report research that involves animals. Three journals with a scientific readership (Nature, Science, and New Scientist) and two journals with a mixed scientist/nonscientist readership (The Economist and The Times Higher Education Supplement) were examined. I have looked at the frequency of reports, the amount of experimental detail given, and the use of language, illustrations, and humor. Common features of these reports are the paucity of detail about the procedures carried out on the animals, their welfare and living conditions, and the numbers of animals used. However, there are significant differences between the journals with a "scientist" readership and those with a "mixed" readership in their readiness to debate the moral issue involved in human uses of animals. From these data the conclusion can be drawn that public debate might be improved by increasing the visibility of the animals themselves in reports of research involving their use.

Turner, S. (2008). "School science and its controversies; or, whatever happened to scientific literacy?" Public Understanding of Science 17(1): 55-72.	The 1980s saw the rise of the public understanding of science, as a movement and as a research field. The decade also saw the goal of K-12 science instruction reoriented toward the promotion of scientific literacy for all students. This paper explores the subsequent relationship of these two movements. It examines debates over K-12 science curricular reform, with particular focus on "civic scientific literacy," the introduction of science, technology, and society ( STS) issues into classrooms, and the gradual retreat from STS-oriented reforms. It discusses how those debates may have been influenced by findings from the public understanding of science, and argues that educational debates themselves provide an important resource for probing larger issues of public understanding.

Turney, J. (1997). "Explaining science in the classroom - Ogborn,J, Kress,G, Martins,I, McGillicuddy,K." Public Understanding of Science 6(4): 430-431.
	
Turney, J. (1997). "Open fields: Science in cultural encounter - Beer,G." Public Understanding of Science 6(3): 298-299.
	
Turney, J. (1997). "Conjuring science - Scientific symbols and cultural meanings in American life - Toumey,C." Public Understanding of Science 6(1): 107-108.
	
Turney, J. (1998). "Imagenation: Popular images of genetics." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 343-348.
	
Turney, J. (1998). "Mendel's dwarf." Public Understanding of Science 7(4): 343-348.
	
Turney, J. (1999). "The last dinosaur book: The life and times of a cultural icon." Public Understanding of Science 8(4): 354-355.
	
Turney, J. (1999). "The Golem at large - What you should know about technology." Public Understanding of Science 8(2): 139-140.
	
Turney, J. (1999). "Science and the media: Alternative routes in scientific communication." Public Understanding of Science 8(2): 144-145.
	
Turney, J. (2001). "The meanings of the gene: Public debates about human heredity." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 149-150.
	
Turney, J. (2003). "Frankenstein: Penetrating the secrets of nature." Public Understanding of Science 12(4): 442-443.
	
Turney, J. (2004). "Accounting for explanation in popular science texts - an analysis of popularized accounts of superstring theory." Public Understanding of Science 13(4): 331-346.	This paper argues that explanation is central to much science communication and seeks ways of describing explanation through text as it is achieved in popular science writing. It is suggested that a framework elaborated by Ogborn et al. (1996) for analyzing the explanatory performance of science teachers in the classroom may be adapted for analysis of popular texts. The suggestion is elaborated through an extended case study of popular works on superstring theory, notably Brian Greene's The Elegant Universe (2000). It is concluded that Ogborn's scheme is useful, but the demands of this theory expose some of the limitations of the framework, and perhaps of textual-that is, non-mathematical-explanation in general.

Turney, J. (2013). "Commentary for Public Understanding of Science special issue." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 570-574.
	
Turney, J. (2016). "Spaceship Earth in the Environmental Age, 1960-1990." Public Understanding of Science 25(8): 1022-1023.
	
Turney, J. (2018). "The shock of the anthropocene." Public Understanding of Science 27(1): 116-116.
	
Tuss, P. (1996). "From student to scientist An experiential approach to science education." Science Communication 17(4): 443-481.	This article provides a rationale for exploring ways in which science educators can structure learning activities that more accurately reflect the scientific inquiry processes used by practicing research scientists. Science learning activities based on the experiential model are better able to promote student construction of scientific knowledge and provoke students into making the transition from naive to higher-order scientific ways of thinking. The conclusion is drawn that experiential education strategies will strengthen school science performance, particularly among students from underrepresented groups, and create an increased pool of scientific and technical workers.

Tyden, T. (1996). "The contribution of longitudinal studies for understanding science communication and research utilization." Science Communication 18(1): 29-48.	Any estimate of the extent and impact of communication between scientists and practitioners is fraught with methodological problems, especially for application to the social sciences. In medicine and in the natural and physical sciences, research utilization can sometimes be measured by the actual use of different techniques. But the word ''utilization'' implies some association to instruments and tools and, for social science research, utilization can be more complex, varying from modification (knowledge creep), nonuse, or whole use, to use of the results in a different way than the sender intended This article describes a longitudinal, in-depth study of municipal-level environmental and health officers in Sweden showing that there is more communication between practitioners and the world of research than other studies imply.

Tyden, T. and D. Nordfors (2000). "Report: INFOPAC - Researchers learn research dissemination by doing." Science Communication 21(3): 296-308.	To facilitate the interplay between researchers and practitioners, a creative experimental interaction has been developed. An information package--INFOPAC--is attached to each new research project receiving financial support from two research-funding organizations in Sweden. Project leaders are offered one day of training in both theories concerning research dissemination and practical application. The first task for the participants in the training is to write a press release and send it to chosen media. An information consultant attached to the projects then measures the outcome. The information consultant also follows up and helps the course participants during the period of the project funding. The trial with INFOPAC has been in progress for three years, and the results achieved so far are reported in this article and placed in their theoretical context.

Tytler, R., et al. (2001). "Public participation in an environmental dispute: implications for science education." Public Understanding of Science 10(4): 343-364.	The paper, which reports the findings of a case study of an environmental dispute, focuses on the role of the key players and the way in which they interacted with the underlying science. A model is proposed that lays out some of the dimensions of the complexity of public involvement, of the understandings of the science pertinent to such socio-scientific issues, and of the way knowledge of science is represented and disseminated in such issues. The analysis focuses on the value of local knowledge in framing and engaging with the issue, on the distinction between generative and evaluative engagement, and on the type of knowledge that proved central for engagement. The implications for science education and notions of scientific literacy are discussed.

Uggla, Y. (2008). "Strategies to create risk awareness and legitimacy: the Swedish climate campaign." Journal of Risk Research 11(6): 719-734.	Social means of risk regulation often only arise in response to media attention and public opinion. In contrast, in the case of climate change, the Swedish government proactively launched a public information campaign to promote public awareness and knowledge of the risks associated with climate change, with the explicit objective of promoting acceptance of public means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This paper analyses the framing of climate change in the Swedish climate campaign and its communication strategy. What was the message of the campaign narrative? What did it imply concerning the causes, effects, and management of and responsibility for climate change? What means were used to communicate the risks of climate change? The paper analyses the campaign narrative, its references to various affective images of climate change, and the various storytelling techniques it used. It concludes that the Swedish climate campaign relied on a unidirectional view of risk communication and proffered a narrative containing inconsistencies and ambivalence. The analysis demonstrates that despite a thoroughly worked-out strategy, a well-defined message, and the intention to speak clearly, a complex problem such as climate change cannot easily be transformed into a single, coherent story.

Uggla, Y. and U. Olausson (2013). "The Enrollment of Nature in Tourist Information: Framing Urban Nature as "the Other"." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(1): 97-112.	This article is based on the assumption that nature inevitably plays a role in urban place-making. Today, cities worldwide are engaged in place promotion in which nature is constructed as a commodity to consume. This article explores the enrollment of nature in tourist information with a specific analytical focus on the relationship between nature and culture. Guided by framing theory and citing the case of tourist information in Stockholm, the article empirically demonstrates how nature is enrolled in tourist information and turned into a commodity through three distinct but related frames that, in various ways, construct nature as other: nature as the familiar other, nature as the exotic other, and pristine nature. The article concludes that the enrollment of nature in city marketing reproduces the modern natureculture divide, which enables the commodification of nature and helps conceal the environmental consequences of increased urban density.

Ulen, T. S. (1998). "The future of law and economics." Science Communication 20(1): 49-51.	Several developments are likely to have significant impact on scholarship in the field of law and economics in the future. These include, first, creation of a richer base of empirical work; second development of theories in human decisionmaking which surpass the explanatory value of the rational choice model; and third incorporation of equitable considerations into analyses of legal commands and institutions.

Ungar, S. (2000). "Knowledge, ignorance and the popular culture: climate change versus the ozone hole." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 297-312.	This paper begins with the "knowledge-ignorance paradox"-the process by which the growth of specialized knowledge results in a simultaneous increase in ignorance. It then outlines the roles of personal and social motivations, institutional decisions, the public culture, and technology in establishing consensual guidelines for ignorance. The upshot is a sociological model of how the "knowledge society" militates against the acquisition of scientific knowledge. Given the assumption of widespread scientific illiteracy, the paper tries to show why the ozone hole was capable of engendering some public understanding and concern, while climate change failed to do so. The ozone threat encouraged the acquisition of knowledge because it was allied and resonated with easy-to-understand bridging metaphors derived from the popular culture. It also engendered a "hot crisis." That is, it provided a sense of immediate and concrete risk with everyday relevance. Climate change fails at both of these criteria and remains in a public limbo.

Ungar, S. (2008). "Global bird flu communication - Hot crisis and media reassurance." Science Communication 29(4): 472-497.	Drawing predominately on a once-a-day Google News Alert for newspaper coverage of the "bird flu," this study examines global discourses on this topic in terms of alarming and reassuring coverage. Three stages of discourse are identified. The first is termed sounding the alarm, where fearful claims making predominates. The second is mixed messages, and involves a continuation of the threat with efforts to moderate it with elements of reassurance, including scientific promises and national plans to combat bird flu. The third stage is hot crisis and containment, and involves efforts to undo the most frightful elements of the avian mutation interpretative package as the H5N1 virus spreads into Europe.

Ungar, S. (2014). "Media Context and Reporting Opportunities on Climate Change: 2012 versus 1988." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(2): 233-248.	This paper asks why the extreme real-world weather events of the summer of 1988 created a social scare in the USA while the comparable weather impacts of 2012 did not. It uses these two summers to exemplify the importance of the broader context surrounding the media. The key background factors are: the dominant issue culture in which the media function; grassroots environmental social movements; and both political and scientific claims-making on climate change. The paper seeks to show that these factors affected reporting opportunities related to the formation of reproducing stories and the (investigative) stance assumed by the media.

Ungar, S. and D. Bray (2005). "Silencing science: partisanship and the career of a publication disputing the dangers of secondhand smoke." Public Understanding of Science 14(1): 5-23.	This paper examines the silencing of science, that is, efforts to prevent the making of specific scientific claims in any or all of the arenas in which these claims are typically reported or circulated. Those trying to mute the reporting or circulation of scientific claims are termed "partisans." The paper examines silencing through a systematic examination of the "rapid responses" to a smoking study published in the British Medical Journal claiming that secondhand smoke is not as dangerous as conventionally believed. Media coverage of the smoking study is also examined, as is the question of whether there is self-silencing by the media regarding doubts about the negative effects of passive smoke. The results suggest that the public consensus about the negative effects of passive smoke is so strong that it has become part of a regime of truth that cannot be intelligibly questioned.

Unsworth, A. and D. Voas (2018). "Attitudes to evolution among Christians, Muslims and the Non-Religious in Britain: Differential effects of religious and educational factors." Public Understanding of Science 27(1): 76-93.	According to poll results and media reports, Britain has a significant and growing number of creationists. However, little scholarly research has been carried out to explore this phenomenon. We present results from a national survey of 6020 individuals to give a comprehensive picture of contemporary public attitudes to evolution in Britain. Furthermore, we explore the effects of religion and education on attitudes to evolution. Unique to this study, we analyse the effects of attending a religiously affiliated school (faith school') on acceptance of evolutionary theory. We examine these effects in the general population, and additionally, across different Christian, Muslim and Non-Religious subpopulations. Results give strong evidence that the number of creationists has been overstated previously. We find the effect of education is complex and varies between different religious groups, but that faith school attendance is associated with more acceptance of evolution for people belonging to groups that tend to reject it.

Ureta, S. (2016). "A failed platform: The Citizen Consensus Conference travels to Chile." Public Understanding of Science 25(4): 499-511.	This article starts by reviewing the setbacks that the recent Science and Technology Studies literature has identified in the functioning of technologies of democracy, the different arrangements that look to enact deliberation on technoscientific issues. Putting a focus on the Citizen Consensus Conference, it then proposes that several of these setbacks are related to the kind of "work" that these technologies are expected to do, identifying two kinds of it: performing a laboratory-based experiment and constituting a platform for the dissemination of facts. It then applies this framework to study a Citizen Consensus Conference carried out in Chile in 2003. After a detailed genealogy of the planning, implementation and afterlife of this exercise, the article concludes that several of the limitations experienced are derived from a "successful outcome" conceived as solely running a neat lab-based experiment, arguing for the need to incorporate its functioning as a platform with all the associated transformations and messiness.

Urtasun, A. A., et al. (2017). "Nuclear fission technology in Spain: History and social concerns." Public Understanding of Science 26(3): 307-324.	This research examines the evolution of nuclear technology in Spain from the early years of the Franco dictatorship to the global financial crisis and technology's influence on Spanish culture. To this end, we take a sociological perspective, with science culture and social perceptions of risk in knowledge societies serving as the two elements of focus in this work. In this sense, this article analyses the transformation of social relationships in light of technological changes. We propose technology as a strategic place to observe the institutional and organisational dynamics of technologic-scientific risks, the expert role and Spain's science culture. In addition, more specifically, within the language of co-production, we follow the actor' and favour new forms of citizen participation that promote ethics to discuss technological issues.

Uusi-Rauva, C. and P. Heikkurinen (2013). "Overcoming Barriers to Successful Environmental Advocacy Campaigns in the Organizational Context." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(4): 475-492.	This paper extends the scope of environmental communication studies from the public sphere to the organizational context with two main aims: first, to understand what barriers there are to individual environmental behavior and second, to suggest how these barriers can be overcome. The findings, based on 13 interviews in Finnish organizations that have implemented an environmental advocacy campaign, the WWF Green Office, support previous findings on individual and societal barriers and, in addition, suggest four barriers specific to the organizational context. To overcome different individual, organizational, and societal barriers, the findings suggest that environmental communication efforts in organizations should, for example, focus on small issues, concretize how action matters, and involve employees at all times. The paper concludes by arguing that while campaigns such as the Green Office can increase environmental awareness in organizations, they are largely ineffective in addressing the serious environmental challenges we face.

Uzelgun, M. A. and P. Castro (2014). "The Voice of Science on Climate Change in the Mainstream Turkish Press." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(3): 326-344.	This study aims to explore how the Turkish press represents the discourse of climate change scientists. This is achieved by analyzing climate change-related articles that quote scientists, directly and indirectly, in two Turkish mainstream newspapers (N = 132, 7 years). The Turkish case illustrates how scientific rhetoric is used for presenting climate change as a matter of concern in an industrializing country. The analysis suggests that climate science is portrayed as an un-discussed authority. News articles rely on data about the disturbance of species and the state of the natural environment to provide proof of global warming, by which they produce an implicit moral imperative. The articles also portray the worst threats and challenges-those pertaining to human society-as residing mostly in the future. We conclude by discussing the implications of the use of a projected future to convey a discourse emphasizing the alarming risks associated with climate change.

Uzelgun, M. A., et al. (2016). "Favorite Battlegrounds of Climate Action: Arguing About Scientific Consensus, Representing Science-Society Relations." Science Communication 38(6): 699-723.	This article examines how two conflicting views regarding science-society relationsscience as the arbiter of truth and as a social endeavorperpetuate a tension in the way scientific consensus and evidence are called upon in climate change debate. In our analysis of interviews with climate change campaigners, we employ argumentation theory and social representations theory to identify and account for three discursive strategies of responding to climate contrarian arguments: direct confrontation by dichotomous arguments, de-dichotomization by addressing background assumptions, and concession to minor scientific uncertainties. We discuss these strategies emphasizing the science-society relations evident in each.

Vadenti, J. M. (2006). "Silent snow: The slow poisoning of the Arctic." Science Communication 27(4): 574-576.
	
Vainio, A., et al. (2017). "Weighing the Risks of Nuclear Energy and Climate Change: Trust in Different Information Sources, Perceived Risks, and Willingness to Pay for Alternatives to Nuclear Power." Risk Analysis 37(3): 557-569.	We examined how individuals perceive nuclear energy in the context of climate change mitigation and how their perceptions are associated with trust in different risk information sources. We analyzed the interrelationships between trust, perceived risk of nuclear power, climate change concern, perception of nuclear energy as an acceptable way to mitigate climate change, and willingness to pay (WTP) for alternatives to nuclear power. A nationwide survey (N = 967) collected in Finland was analyzed with structural equation modeling. The associations between trust and perceived risk of nuclear power, climate change concern, and perception of nuclear power as a way to mitigate climate change varied by the type of information source. Political party support and other background variables were associated with trust in different information sources. The effect of trust in information sources on WTP was mediated by perceived risks and benefits. The results will increase our understanding of how individuals perceive nuclear energy as a way to cut CO2 emissions and the role of trust in different information sources in shaping nuclear risk perceptions and energy choices.

Valenti, J. (2012). "Sundance 2012: Robots, Dying Lakes, and Sci-Fi Disasters." Science Communication 34(2): 292-295.
	
Valenti, J. A. M. (2007). "At first sight and true believer." Science Communication 29(2): 273-274.
	
Valenti, J. M. (1999). "Commentary: How well do scientists communicate to media?" Science Communication 21(2): 172-178.	On the basis of a review of traditionally reported "differences" between journalists and scientists and ongoing research, the author argues that organizational or professional culture dissonance may not present an impermeable barrier to communication. Findings from application of an ethical motivation scale and interviews with environmental journalists, science writers, and their science sources suggest shared goals create the basis for a much-needed two-way conversation.

Valenti, J. M. (2000). "Report: Developing sustainability - Communication insights from two euro conferences." Science Communication 22(2): 219-225.	Two recent international conferences held in Sweden focused on science, engineering, and sustainable development. Although both were deemed successful by participants, problems continue with concept definition and with communicating how real steps will be implemented in achieving sustainability's goals.

Valenti, J. M. (2002). "Communication challenges for science and religion." Public Understanding of Science 11(1): 57-63.	How can the very different worlds of science and religion communicate effectively? Religion requires faith, belief without question. Science demands we take nothing on faith, reject any anecdotal evidence. How might these seemingly opposed disciplines collaborate to improve public understanding of science and impact pending policy making without undermining spiritual well being? Are scholars from both disciplines engineering the needed bridges'?.

Valenti, J. M. (2003). "Commentary: Media coverage of the World Summit on Sustainable Development." Science Communication 24(3): 380-386.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2005). "Science and sensibility: The elegant logic of the universe." Science Communication 27(2): 314-316.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2005). "Acquainted with the night: A parent's quest to understand depression and bipolar disorder in his children." Science Communication 26(4): 451-453.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2005). "Race: The reality of human differences." Science Communication 26(3): 333-336.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2005). "Environmental justice in America: A new paradigm." Science Communication 26(3): 333-336.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2006). "The science of wine: From vine to glass." Science Communication 28(2): 273-274.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2006). "Green inheritance: Saving the plants of the world." Science Communication 28(2): 273-274.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2006). "Science and the stars ... Movie stars, that is ..." Science Communication 28(1): 144-149.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2006). "A field guide for science writers: The official guide of the National Association Science Writers, 2nd edition." Science Communication 27(3): 446-446.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2007). "Flowers: How they changed the world." Science Communication 28(3): 425-426.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2008). "Of note." Science Communication 29(4): 539-540.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2010). "The New York Times Reader: Science & Technology." Science Communication 32(3): 418-418.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2010). "Sundance Film Festival 2010." Science Communication 32(2): 288-291.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2010). "The Vanishing Face of Gaia:A Final Warning." Science Communication 32(1): 128-129.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2010). "The End of the Long Summer:Why We Must Rethink Our Civilization to Survive on a Volatile Earth." Science Communication 32(1): 128-129.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2011). "Blends of Fiction, Imagination, and Romance Bring Science to Screens at Sundance Film Festival 2011." Science Communication 33(1): 130-133.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2012). "God and the Folly of Faith: The Incompatibility of Science and Religion." Science Communication 34(4): 557-558.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2013). "The Science Writers' Handbook: Everything You Need to Know to Pitch, Publish and Prosper in the Digital Age." Science Communication 35(5): 678-679.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2013). "Sundance 2013: Defining "Science"." Science Communication 35(2): 276-278.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2015). "Films at Sundance 2015 Feature Research Controversies." Science Communication 37(2): 270-273.	This year's Sundance Film Festival showcased a number of films about science. Two of them, including the Sloan Award winner, are based on notorious historical cases of human subjects research gone awry. Two others use fiction to present visions for humanity's possible future.

Valenti, J. M. (2015). "Muddling through Science at Sundance." Public Understanding of Science 24(5): 636-638.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2016). "Sundance Filmmakers Overlook Top Science Stories, Focus on History of Planet's Destruction." Science Communication 38(3): 407-410.
	
Valenti, J. M. (2017). "Combating Failed Science, Communicating a Science Future at Sundance." Science Communication 39(3): 407-410.
	
Valenti, J. M. and G. Tavana (2005). "Report: Continuing science education for environmental journalists and science writers - In situ with the experts." Science Communication 27(2): 300-310.	Since the emergence of specialty beats in science and environment reporting, journalists have looked for opportunities to enhance their understanding of these complex subjects. Institutions both public and private have responded with programs designed to provide continuing education aimed at those writers and reporters who cover science or environmental stories in a range of mass media. One such fellowship program, now in its 7th year, takes place annually under the direction of the National Tropical Botanical Garden, with its headquarters on the Hawaiian island of Kauai. A report on the program's success demonstrates the need for this and similar efforts geared toward improving the public's understanding of science by targeting media messengers.

Valenti, J. M. A. (2007). "Mom's OK she just forgets: The Alzheimer's journey from denial to acceptance." Science Communication 29(1): 136-137.
	
Valiverronen, E. (2004). "Stories of the "medicine cow": representations of future promises in media discourse." Public Understanding of Science 13(4): 363-377.	This paper studies the changing media representations and public perceptions of biotechnology through a case study of the generation of transgenic cattle in Finland. The particular focus is on rhetoric of the future: the narrative shaping of future promises, the politics of naming, visual images, and the role of the news media in producing and circulating images of new genetics. It is suggested that scientists can play a dominant role in popularizing scientific and technological innovations by using positive metaphors and visual imagery of genetics.

Valiverronen, E. and I. Hellsten (2002). "From "burning library" to "green medicine" - The role of metaphors in communicating biodiversity." Science Communication 24(2): 229-245.	In public discourse on the environment, scientific knowledge is often mediated by metaphors. In this article, the authors are concerned with the role of metaphors in the communication of biodiversity loss. More specifically, their examination focuses on such popular metaphors as "the library of life, " "biotic holocaust," and "the Holy Grail" and on the role of these metaphors in putting biodiversity loss on the global environmental agenda. These metaphors reflect two opposite narratives on environmental politics: the apocalyptic narrative of species extinction and the new narrative of hope that looks at genetic engineering.

van Asselt, M. B. A. and O. Renn (2011). "Risk governance." Journal of Risk Research 14(4): 431-449.	The term 'governance' has been used in political science to describe the multitude of actors and processes that lead to collective binding decisions. The term 'risk governance' involves the translation of the substance and core principles of governance to the context of risk-related decision-making. Does it involve a major change on how risks are conceptualized, managed, and communicated, or it is just a new fashion? In this paper, we aim to delineate the genesis and analytical scope of risk governance. In our view, risk governance pertains to the various ways in which many actors, individuals, and institutions, public and private, deal with risks surrounded by uncertainty, complexity, and/or ambiguity. It emphasizes that not all risks are simple; they cannot be calculated as a function of probability and effect. It is more than a descriptive shorthand for a complex, interacting network in which collective binding decisions are taken around a particular set of societal issues. The ambition is that risk governance provides a conceptual as well as normative basis for how to deal responsibly with uncertain, complex, and/or ambiguous risks in particular. We propose to synthesize the body of scholarly ideas and proposals on the governance of systemic risks in a set of principles: the communication and inclusion principle, the integration principle, and the reflection principle. This set of principles should be read as a synthesis of what needs to be seriously considered in organizing structures and processes to govern risks.

Van de Velde, L., et al. (2011). "Trust and perception related to information about biofuels in Belgium." Public Understanding of Science 20(5): 595-608.	Public knowledge regarding green energy is limited and there is a perceived lack of information, particularly in the case of biofuels. This study investigates the information seeking behaviour of fuel consumers with regard to biofuels, their preferences for particular elements and channels of information and their trust in information sources. The majority of respondents were interested in many elements of information, and particularly in the tax (dis) advantages associated with biofuels. They prefer to obtain information via newspapers and brochures. Scientists, environmental and consumer organizations and the government are perceived as the most trustworthy sources of information whilst word of mouth sources, journalists and the fuel sector are less well trusted. Four consumer clusters could be distinguished, on the basis of the perceived relative trustworthiness of information sources, and these clusters have significantly different socio-demographic characteristics and preferences for elements and channels of information.

van der Hel, S., et al. (2018). "Tipping Points and Climate Change: Metaphor Between Science and the Media." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(5): 605-620.	Over the past decade, scientists and journalists have prominently utilized the metaphor of a tipping point for drastic, irreversible and dangerous climate change. This paper shows how the tipping point metaphor became a multi-purpose bridge between science and the news media, describing how its meaning and use developed and diversified in interaction between these two domains. Within the scientific domain, the metaphor developed from a rhetorical device conveying a warning of drastic, irreversible and dangerous climate change to a theoretical concept driving empirical research. The news media soon picked up the tipping point metaphor for abrupt and dangerous climate change, turning it into a common part of the journalistic lexicon. Moreover, both science and the news media developed another, societal use of the tipping point metaphor, calling for radical societal change to avoid climate change catastrophe. The tipping point metaphor is hence not a monolithic notion but a highly versatile concept and expression, allowing it to be used for various communicative purposes by distinct stakeholders in different contexts.

van der Linden, S. (2016). "A Conceptual Critique of the Cultural Cognition Thesis." Science Communication 38(1): 128-138.	I offer a critique of the cultural cognition thesis. I argue that cultural cognition is not a theory about culture or cognition per se; rather, it is a thesis that aims to explain why specific American groups with opposing political views disagree over a select number of contemporary science issues. I highlight that cultural cognition can be characterized as a strange loop as it frequently defines its core theoretical properties (e.g., group, culture, political ideology) in terms of one another. The approach also overgeneralizes specific findings from social psychology and underappreciates the many audiences that comprise the general public.

van der Meij, M. G., et al. (2017). "Supporting Citizens in Reflection on Synthetic Biology by Means of Video-Narratives." Science Communication 39(6): 713-744.	To unravel how video-narratives can support reflection in Responsible Research and Innovation contexts, this study evaluates four video-narratives designed for citizen-reflection on synthetic biology. Each video narrative comprised separate clips about three subtopics in which actors represented different views of synthetic biology. The video-clips were presented to Dutch citizens in two different setups: per narrator and per subtopic. Both setups appeared to trigger three reflection processes and three reflection outcomes. Our findings suggest that video-narratives shown per subtopic support reflection more extensively, provided that workshop setups pay considerable attention to reflection on values and assumptions.

van der Sanden, M., et al. (2017). "Issue Introduction: Broader Societal Impacts of Science Communication." Science Communication 39(2): 139-141.
	
Van der Sanden, M. C. A. and F. J. Meijman (2004). "Evidence-based science communication - An essay." Science Communication 25(3): 272-287.	Use of the literature review in scientific publications is often poorly thought out and unsystematic. The reader therefore, has no insight into the quality of the conclusions that were drawn from the literature used. Those conclusions are often based on a coincidental, and not necessarily complete, set of articles. A set of empirical findings resulting from methodologically sound research, as well as a set of essays or editorials can be interesting and peer-reviewed, but the informational value, based on the validity and relevance of both types of literature, is different. This has consequences for which publications should weigh more heavily in the conclusions of a literature review or in the design of an educational science campaign, for example. We make a plea for a systematic literature search within the field of science communication. We will propose a system for evidence-based science communication based on the principles of evidence-based medicine.

van der Sanden, M. C. A. and F. J. Meijman (2008). "Dialogue guides awareness and understanding of science: an essay on different goals of dialogue leading to different science communication approaches." Public Understanding of Science 17(1): 89-103.	Dialogue has become a buzzword in science communication. Many governmental initiatives involving information transfer use dialogue as a selling point. We have, for example, a dialogue on genetic manipulation, a dialogue on the scientific future of Europe, a dialogue on food safety. Dialogue has almost become a communication target on its own, beside such things as public understanding or awareness of science. Dialogue is, however, just a technique, a method that can be used in any modality of science communication to serve any of its goals. New developments in the growing use of dialogue should therefore be considered as part of science communication as a whole. In this essay we discuss the various operationalizations of dialogue for different science communication modalities and goals, based on different notions of science. Dialogue offers various possibilities for science communication. There is an important difference between dialogue with a functional goal and dialogue with a conceptual goal. This distinction and its implications are based on our recent study on effective biomedical science communication on predictive DNA diagnostics.

van der Vegt, R. G. (2018). "Risk Assessment and Risk Governance of Liquefied Natural Gas Development in Gladstone, Australia." Risk Analysis 38(9): 1830-1846.	This article is a retrospective analysis of liquefied natural gas development (LNG) in Gladstone, Australia by using the structure of the risk governance framework developed by the International Risk Governance Council (IRGC). Since 2010 the port of Gladstone has undergone extensive expansion to facilitate the increasing coal export as well as the new development of three recently completed LNG facilities. Significant environmental and socio-economic impacts and concerns have occurred as a result of these developments. The overall aim of the article, therefore, is to identify the risk governance deficits that arose and to formulate processes capable of improving similar decision-making problems in the future. The structure of the IRGC framework is followed because it represents a broad analytical approach for considering risk assessment and risk governance in Gladstone in ways that include, but also go beyond, the risk approach of the ISO 31000:2009 standard that was employed at the time. The IRGC risk framework is argued to be a consistent and comprehensive risk governance framework that integrates scientific, economic, social, and cultural aspects and advocates the notion of inclusive risk governance through stakeholder communication and involvement. Key aspects related to risk preassessment, risk appraisal, risk tolerability and acceptability, risk management, and stakeholder communication and involvement are considered. The results indicate that the risk governance deficits include aspects related to (i) the risk matrix methodology, (ii) reflecting uncertainties, (iii) cumulative risks, (iv) the regulatory process, and (v) stakeholder communication and involvement.

van Dijck, J. (2003). "After the "two cultures" - Toward a "(multi)cultural" practice of science communication." Science Communication 25(2): 177-190.	In his famous lecture "The Two Cultures" (1959), C. R Snow identified an unbridgeable gap between two hostile branches of knowledge: the (natural) sciences and the humanities. The two-cultures opposition has long dissolved since 1959. In the twenty-first century, the postmodern condition of science has given rise to the "(multi)cultural paradigm" of science communication-a paradigm beyond the two cultures and the narrativation of knowledge, acknowledging not only the increasing cultural diversity in populations throughout the world but also the many cultures or disciplines involved in the construction and communication of science.

van Dijk, H., et al. (2011). "Consumer Responses to Integrated Risk-Benefit Information Associated with the Consumption of Food." Risk Analysis 31(3): 429-439.	The risk analysis of the health impact of foods is increasingly focused on integrated risk-benefit assessment, which will also need to be communicated to consumers. It therefore becomes important to understand how consumers respond to integrated risk-benefit information. Quality-adjusted-life-years (QALYs) is one measure that can be used to assess the balance between risks and benefits associated with a particular food. The effectiveness of QALYs for communicating both positive and negative health effects associated with food consumption to consumers was examined, using a 3 x 2 experiment varying information about health changes in terms of QALYs associated with the consumption of fish (n = 325). The effect of this information on consumer perceptions of the usefulness of QALYs for describing health effects, on risk and benefit perceptions, attitudes, and intentions to consume fish was examined. Results demonstrated that consumers perceived QALYs as useful for communicating health effects associated with food consumption. QALYs communicated as a net effect were preferred for food products associated with negative net effects on health, while separate communication of both risks and benefits may be preferred for food products associated with positive or zero net health effects. Information about health changes in terms of QALYs facilitated informed decision making by consumers, as indicated by the impact on risk and benefit perceptions as intended by the information. The impact of this information on actual food consumption choices merits further investigation.

van Giesen, R. I., et al. (2018). "Changes in the influence of affect and cognition over time on consumer attitude formation toward nanotechnology: A longitudinal survey study." Public Understanding of Science 27(2): 168-184.	Insights into how consumer attitudes toward nanotechnology are formed and develop are crucial for understanding and anticipating possible barriers in consumer acceptance of nanotechnology applications. In this study, the influence of affect and cognition on overall opinion is investigated longitudinally for emerging nanotechnologies, and compared with conventional technologies. Overall, in attitude formation toward nanotechnology applications, people rely relatively more on affect than cognition. Over time, reliance on affect decreases whereas reliance on cognition increases for nanotechnology. This suggests that over time nanotechnology applications have become somewhat more integrated within people's already existing knowledge structure. However, for conventional technologies the influence of affect and cognition on overall attitude remains stable over time. The current study shows that it is essential to address both affective and cognitive aspects of public opinion of nanotechnology.

Van Gorp, B., et al. (2014). "From the wizard to the doubter: Prototypes of scientists and engineers in fiction and non-fiction media aimed at Dutch children and teenagers." Public Understanding of Science 23(6): 646-659.	The aim of this paper is to gain insight into the prototypical scientists as they appear in fiction and non-fiction media consumed by children and teenagers in the Netherlands. A qualitative-interpretive content analysis is used to identify seven prototypes and the associated characteristics in a systematic way. The results show that the element of risk is given more attention in fiction than in non-fiction. Also, eccentric scientists appear more often in fiction. In non-fiction, the dimension useful/useless is more important. Furthermore, fictional scientists are loners, although in practice scientists more often work in a team. In both fiction and non-fiction, the final product of the scientific process gets more attention than the process itself. The prototype of the doubter is introduced as an alternative to the dominant representations because it represents scientists and engineers in a more nuanced way.

van Kleef, E., et al. (2010). "Risk and Benefit Perceptions of Mobile Phone and Base Station Technology in Bangladesh." Risk Analysis 30(6): 1002-1015.	Research in developed countries showed that many citizens perceive that radio signals transmitted by mobile phones and base stations represent potential health risks. Less research has been conducted in developing countries focused on citizen perceptions of risks and benefits, despite the recent and rapid introduction of mobile communication technologies. This study aims to identify factors that are influential in determining the tradeoffs that Bangladeshi citizens make between risks and benefits in terms of mobile phone technology acceptance and health concerns associated with the technology. Bangladesh was selected as representative of many developing countries inasmuch as terrestrial telephone infrastructure is insubstantial, and mobile phone use has expanded rapidly over the last decade, even among the poor. Issues of importance were identified in a small-scale qualitative study among Bangladeshi citizens (n = 13), followed by a survey within a sample of Bangladeshi citizens (n = 500). The results demonstrate that, in general, the perceived benefits of mobile phone technology outweigh the risks. The perceived benefits are primarily related to the social and personal advantages of mobile phone use, including the ability to receive emergency news about floods, cyclones, and other natural disasters. Base stations were seen as a symbol of societal advance. The results furthermore suggest that overall risk perceptions are relatively low, in particular health risks, and are primarily driven by perceptions that related to crime and social inconvenience. Perceived health risks are relatively small. These findings show that risk communication and management may be particularly effective when contextual factors of the society where the system is implemented are taken into consideration.

Van Kleef, E., et al. (2007). "Consumer evaluations of food risk management quality in Europe." Risk Analysis 27(6): 1565-1580.	In developing and implementing appropriate food risk management strategies, it is important to understand how consumers evaluate the quality of food risk management practices. The aim of this study is to model the underlying psychological factors influencing consumer evaluations of food risk management quality using structural equation modeling techniques (SEM), and to examine the extent to which the influence of these factors is country-specific (comparing respondents from Denmark, Germany, Greece, Slovenia, and the United Kingdom). A survey was developed to model the factors that drive consumer evaluations of food risk management practices and their relative importance (n = 2,533 total respondents). The measurement scales included in the structural model were configurally and metrically invariant across countries. Results show that some factors appear to drive perceptions of effective food risk management in all the countries studied, such as proactive consumer protection, which was positively related to consumers' evaluation of food risk management quality, while opaque and reactive risk management was negatively related to perceived food risk management quality. Other factors appeared to apply only in certain countries. For example, skepticism in risk assessment and communication practices was negatively related to food risk management quality, particularly so in the UK. Expertise of food risk managers appeared to be a key factor in consumers' evaluation of food risk management quality in some countries. However, trust in the honesty of food risk managers did not have a significant effect on food risk management quality. From the results, policy implications for food risk management are discussed and important directions for future research are identified.

Van Ommeren, M. and S. Saxena (2003). "Public health communication: Evidence for behavior change." Public Understanding of Science 12(2): 212-213.
	
van Oudheusden, M. and H. De Zutter (2012). "Contesting Co-Inquiry: "Noncommunicative" Discourse in a Flemish Participatory Technology Assessment." Science Communication 34(1): 84-114.	This article explores how social scientists, ethicists, and nanotechnologists construct research decisions together, while engaged in a Flemish participatory technology assessment on nanotechnologies. It finds that they routinely probe one another to make substantive contributions but avoid the argumentative initiative itself through various discursive strategies, such as reversing roles and delegating responsibility. It argues that these strategies emanate through the project's methodology of co-inquiry, which depends on sharing and partnership, whereas some members resist participating on initiators' terms. It links such "noncommunicative" action to unresolved disagreements between participants about project ends, conflicting approaches to decision making, and divergent appreciations of "uncertainty.".

Van Wassenhove, W., et al. (2012). "A comparative study of stakeholder risk perception and risk communication in Europe: a bovine spongiform encephalopathy case study." Journal of Risk Research 15(6): 565-582.	The 'Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy (TSE) Roadmap' was published by the European Commission on 15 July 2005. The TSE Roadmap proposes the relaxation of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) measures in the short, medium and long term. According to the Roadmap, any relaxation of BSE measures following the scientific assessment should be initiated by an open discussion with all stakeholders and supported by a strong communication strategy. This paper discusses the risk perception, risk communication and risk management of TSEs in Europe, exemplified by the TSE Roadmap. The main conclusion is that in general, BSE is no longer a 'hot' topic for stakeholders, but there are slight differences between countries with respect to specific measures. Another important conclusion is that the TSE Roadmap is a very effective tool for risk communication with stakeholders.

Van Witsen, A. and B. Takahashi (2018). "Knowledge-based Journalism in Science and Environmental Reporting: Opportunities and Obstacles." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(6): 717-730.	Recent calls for knowledge-based journalism advocate a new level of formal knowledge in news reporting to meet the professional challenges caused by rapid change in the news industry. Scientifically knowledgeable journalism has the potential to redefine the existing science-media relationship. However, the audience for such journalism is unclear, nor is it known how this new journalism would function within rapidly changing newsroom practices. Implementing knowledge-based journalism requires theory-based propositions to show the actual benefits of improved scientific understanding for news consumers and an understanding, from research into professional cultures, of why new practices in journalism are adopted or abandoned. This paper develops that theoretical basis by examining knowledge-based journalism's potential and some of the intellectual and institutional barriers to it.

Vandermoere, F., et al. (2011). "The public understanding of nanotechnology in the food domain: The hidden role of views on science, technology, and nature." Public Understanding of Science 20(2): 195-206.	In spite of great expectations about the potential of nanotechnology, this study shows that people are rather ambiguous and pessimistic about nanotechnology applications in the food domain. Our findings are drawn from a survey of public perceptions about nanotechnology food and nanotechnology food packaging (N = 752). Multinomial logistic regression analyses further reveal that knowledge about food risks and nanotechnology significantly influences people's views about nanotechnology food packaging. However, knowledge variables were unrelated to support for nanofood, suggesting that an increase in people's knowledge might not be sufficient to bridge the gap between the excitement some business leaders in the food sector have and the restraint of the public. Additionally, opposition to nanofood was not related to the use of heuristics but to trust in governmental agencies. Furthermore, the results indicate that public perceptions of nanoscience in the food domain significantly relate to views on science, technology, and nature.

VanDyke, M. S. and A. J. King (2018). "Using the CAUSE Model to Understand Public Communication about Water Risks: Perspectives from Texas Groundwater District Officials on Drought and Availability." Risk Analysis 38(7): 1378-1389.	Public communication about drought and water availability risks poses challenges to a potentially disinterested public. Water management professionals, though, have a responsibility to work with the public to engage in communication about water and environmental risks. Because limited research in water management examines organizational communication practices and perceptions, insights into research and practice can be gained through investigation of current applications of these risk communication efforts. Guided by the CAUSE model, which explains common goals in communicating risk information to the public (e.g., creating Confidence, generating Awareness, enhancing Understanding, gaining Satisfaction, and motivating Enactment), semistructured interviews of professionals (N = 25) employed by Texas groundwater conservation districts were conducted. The interviews examined how CAUSE model considerations factor in to communication about drought and water availability risks. These data suggest that many work to build constituents' confidence in their districts. Although audiences and constituents living in drought-prone areas were reported as being engaged with water availability risks and solutions, many district officials noted constituents' lack of perceived risk and engagement. Some managers also indicated that public understanding was a secondary concern of their primary responsibilities and that the public often seemed apathetic about technical details related to water conservation risks. Overall, results suggest complicated dynamics between officials and the public regarding information access and motivation. The article also outlines extensions of the CAUSE model and implications for improving public communication about drought and water availability risks.

Vaneijndhoven, J. C. M., et al. (1994). "Risk Communication in the Netherlands - the Monitored Introduction of the Ec Post-Seveso Directive." Risk Analysis 14(1): 87-96.	Implementation of article 8.1 of the EC-''Seveso'' Directive (82/501/EC) is now under way in many countries in Europe. In The Netherlands, the implementation of the Directive started with a carefully monitored introduction of active information provision at two sites (Dordrecht and Elst). This introduction was supported by a multidisciplinary research group. This group helped to develop the risk communication program and also played a role in the evaluation of the program. This paper describes these processes and their evaluation. We will focus on the design of the risk communication programs and the effects of the programs on knowledge and attitudes of the local target groups. This effort and its results clearly started an institutional learning process involving governmental bodies at several organizational levels (local, regional, and national), and industrial organizations (individual firms and organizations of industries). Monitoring the design, the implementation, and the effects of active information provision proves an effective means to gain experience with the implementation of the Seveso Directive and could help to facilitate further implementation.

VanWijk, J. and W. Jaffe (1996). "Plant breeders' rights in Latin America - The effect on the transfer of foreign plant varieties." Science Communication 17(3): 338-356.	Many Latin American countries are currently introducing intellectual property protection legislation for plant varieties. This process is the result both of foreign pressure and of domestic demands from firms which aim at enhanced participation in global technological cooperation. This article concludes that the introduction of plant breeders' rights legislation may improve access to those plant genetic resources which are concentrated with foreign private firms. However, exploitation of these resources may be restricted by the right holder; especially when it substitutes for existing exploitation in the main (foreign) markets.

Vaughan, E. (1995). "The Significance of Socioeconomic and Ethnic Diversity for the Risk Communication Process." Risk Analysis 15(2): 169-180.	Risk communication is being characterized as one way of facilitating more effective, democratic and participatory risk management strategies. An emphasis on formal communication approaches as a means to improve decisions and decrease conflict will highlight the challenge of managing hazards within a culturally heterogeneous society. Communication and participatory strategies will be considered successful only if diverse communities can be engaged as partners in the policy process. Because responses to risks are embedded and evolve within broader social environments, achieving the promise of risk communication across a diverse society may not be possible absent an understanding of how sociocultural variables and past experiences shape the exchange of ideas or information in any particular situation. This paper considers the implications of ethnic and socioeconomic variability for the risk communication process, summarizing theoretical perspectives and empirical evidence on the link between sociocultural features and risk responses. Specifically, the factors that define the context of communication may influence: the initial framing of a risk issue, particularly, the adoption of an environmental justice vs. scientific/economic perspective; the perceived importance of various aspects of the decision problem; and prior beliefs about environmental hazards and agencies involved in risk management. Two examples of situations requiring communications about risk are presented and illustrate how these principles could operate in minority or lower-income communities. A significant challenge for health and regulatory officials will be to engage in an interactive process of information and opinion exchanges that is reasonable and effective within vastly different socioeconomic and cultural contexts.

Veen, M., et al. (2011). "Emergent technologies against the background of everyday life: Discursive psychology as a technology assessment tool." Public Understanding of Science 20(6): 810-825.	To understand prospective users' reactions to emergent technologies, it is crucial to examine the interactional contexts within which these reactions take place as people's reactions are shaped by issues that are not necessarily related to science or technology. These issues are often overshadowed or remain blind spots when descriptions or scenarios of proposed technologies are thematized as being the core objects of reference. We therefore recommend also studying prospective users' everyday-life practices in their own right, and in naturalistic settings. Insight into the social actions people accomplish in their everyday talk, such as establishing a particular identity, can help innovators translate prospective users' concerns into relevant technology characteristics. We propose discursive psychology as an analytic tool to do this and show its merit with a few illustrative examples.

Veen, M., et al. (2012). "Competing Agendas in Upstream Engagement Meetings Between Celiac Disease Experts and Patients." Science Communication 34(4): 460-486.	This article examines discussions between innovators and patient users about emergent medical technologies in the field of celiac disease. Using discursive psychology and conversation analysis, the authors analyze participants' talk with regard to the social activities performed. They find that the topical agenda, preference structure, and presuppositions incorporated in the innovators' questions restrict patients' scope for saying things in and on their own terms. Not participants' intentions per se but what the questions indirectly communicate profoundly shapes the agenda of these meetings. This may explain why some of the difficulties of innovator-user interaction are persistent and hard to pinpoint.

Veenstra, A. S., et al. (2016). "Conservatism vs. conservationism: differential influences of social identities on beliefs about fracking." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(3): 322-336.	Although recent expansions in hydraulic fracking operations across the United States have led to greater news coverage and attention from the public, overall understanding remains fairly low. For some, relevant social identities, including environmental or political, may provide a short cut to becoming informed about fracking, or to determining what they believe about it and how that influences their positions on fracking policies. Social identity influence frameworks provide an approach to understanding the relationships between belief and identity, which this study investigates through its affiliational and attitudinal components. National survey data are used to model pathways from environmental and political identities to beliefs about risks associated with fracking. Environmental attitudes significantly predicted belief that fracking has health risks, and mediated a relationship from environmental group affiliation, but environmental information was not significant. Ideology had direct and indirect effects, through partisan media use, while partisanship had direct effects on beliefs about environmental risks.

Velicer, C. M. and B. A. Knuth (1994). "Communicating Contaminant Risks from Sport-Caught Fish - the Importance of Target Audience Assessment." Risk Analysis 14(5): 833-841.	A fish consumption health advisory has existed for New York Lake Ontario sport-caught fish since 1978.  Our study objectives were to evaluate the effectiveness of the advisory for reaching potential target audiences and to identify appropriate advisory content, style, and dissemination methods using a risk communication planning model as an evaluation framework.  We used a combination of mail surveys and personal interviews with three target audiences (opinion leaders among recreational anglers and charter boat operators, migrant farm workers, and low-income individuals) and two communicator groups (fishery experts and health care experts).  The New York Lake Ontario advisory appeared to be successful in reaching and encouraging risk-mitigating fish consumption behavior in recreational angler opinion leaders and low-income individuals but not in migrant farm workers.  The advisory may not be reaching two sensitive subpopulations, women of childbearing age and children.  Communicators and target audiences differed in their assessments of important information to include in an advisory.  The health advisory could be improved with additional information such as risk-reducing cooking and cleaning methods and by diversifying the dissemination methods to reach the variety of audiences who potentially consume Lake Ontario fish.

Veltri, G. A. (2013). "Viva la Nano-Revolucion! A Semantic Analysis of the Spanish National Press." Science Communication 35(2): 143-167.	This study analyzes nanotechnology's anchoring and codification in the Spanish national press to determine the thematic contexts in which this technology has been discussed. Latent semantic analysis was applied to identify themes based on semantic clusters and their longitudinal evolution. This analysis was carried out on a corpus of more than 600 articles from the most prominent Spanish national newspapers and includes articles from 1997 to 2009. Findings indicate an overall positive coverage and dominant thematic clusters related to national policies, economic development, and business opportunities. Surprisingly, controversies surrounding nanotechnology are present in the early years of coverage but have become marginal over time, in contradiction to a general trend that emerged from previous studies on media representations of new technologies.

Veltri, G. A. (2013). "Microblogging and nanotweets: Nanotechnology on Twitter." Public Understanding of Science 22(7): 832-849.	The social web represents a new arena for local, national and global conversations and will play an increasing role in the public understanding of science. This paper presents an analysis of the representations of nanotechnology on Twitter, analysing over 24,000 tweets in terms of web metrics, latent semantic and sentiment analysis. Results indicate that most active users on nanotechnology are distributed according to a power law distribution and that web metric indicators suggest little conversation on the topic. In terms of content, there is a remarkable similarity with previous studies of nanotechnology's representations in other media outlets. Related to content is the sentiment analysis that indicates predominantly positively loaded words in the corpus. Negative sentiments mainly took the form of uncertainty and fear of the unknown rather than open hostility.

Veltri, G. A. and D. Atanasova (2017). "Climate change on Twitter: Content, media ecology and information sharing behaviour." Public Understanding of Science 26(6): 721-737.	This article presents a study of the content, use of sources and information sharing about climate change analysing over 60,000 tweets collected using a random week sample. We discuss the potential for studying Twitter as a communicative space that is rich in different types of information and presents both new challenges and opportunities. Our analysis combines automatic thematic analysis, semantic network analysis and text classification according to psychological process categories. We also consider the media ecology of tweets and the external web links that users shared. In terms of content, the network of topics uncovered presents a multidimensional discourse that accounts for complex causal links between climate change and its consequences. The media ecology analysis revealed a narrow set of sources with a major role played by traditional media and that emotionally arousing text was more likely to be shared.

Veltri, G. A. and A. K. Suerdem (2013). "Worldviews and discursive construction of GMO-related risk perceptions in Turkey." Public Understanding of Science 22(2): 137-154.	This paper analyses the discursive construction of the genetically modified organisms (GMOs) issue in the Turkish political arena following the public debate on the pending legislation on biosecurity. The study proposes an operational approach to semiotic/actor network theory (Latour) applied to public representations of a new technology within the theoretical frameworks of social representation theory and cultural theory of risks. It aims to highlight how different worldviews produce different risk discourses of GMOs in Turkey. Using cluster analysis to inductively extract evaluative categories, we use these to identify themes by human coding. Lastly, we apply formal concept analysis to link themes to actors and their worldviews, establishing their semantic networks. Formal concept analysis revealed four discourse networks reflecting nationalist, Islamist, progressive (left) and neo-liberal worldviews. Finally, these structures will be grounded back in the articles for a richer interpretive analysis.

Ventura, V., et al. (2017). "How scary! An analysis of visual communication concerning genetically modified organisms in Italy." Public Understanding of Science 26(5): 547-563.	Several studies provide evidence of the role of written communication in influencing public perception towards genetically modified organisms, whereas visual communication has been sparsely investigated. This article aims to evaluate the exposure of the Italian population to scary genetically modified organism-related images. A set of 517 images collected through Google are classified considering fearful attributes, and an index that accounts for the scary impact of these images is built. Then, through an ordinary least-squares regression, we estimate the relationship between the Scary Impact Index and a set of variables that describes the context in which the images appear. The results reveal that the first (and most viewed) Google result images contain the most frightful contents. In addition, the agri-food sector in Italy is strongly oriented towards offering a negative representation of genetically modified organisms. Exposure to scary images could be a factor that affects the negative perception of genetically modified organisms in Italy.

Venturini, T. (2010). "Diving in magma: how to explore controversies with actor-network theory." Public Understanding of Science 19(3): 258-273.	The cartography of controversies is a set of techniques to explore and visualize issues. It was developed by Bruno Latour as a didactic version of Actor-Network Theory to train college students in the investigation of contemporary socio-technical debate. The scope and interest of such cartography, however, exceed its didactic origin. Adopted and developed in several universities in Europe and the US, the cartography of controversies is today a full research method, though, unfortunately, not a much documented one. To fill this lack of documentation, we draw on our experience as Latour's teaching assistant, to introduce some of the main techniques of the social cartographer toolkit. In particular, in these pages we will focus on exploration, leaving the discussion of visualization tools to a further paper.

Venturini, T. (2012). "Building on faults: How to represent controversies with digital methods." Public Understanding of Science 21(7): 796-812.	In a previous article in this journal, I introduced Bruno Latour's cartography of controversies and I discussed half of it, namely how to observe techno-scientific controversies. In this article I will concentrate on the remaining half: how to represent the complexity of social debates in a legible form. In my previous paper, we learnt how to explore the richness of collective existence through Actor-Network Theory. In this one, I will discuss how to render such complexity through an original visualization device: the controversy-website. Capitalizing on the potential of digital technologies, the controversy-website has been developed as a multilayered toolkit to trace and aggregate information on public debates.

Verbeke, W., et al. (2008). "Communicating risks and benefits from fish consumption: Impact on Belgian consumers' perception and intention to eat fish." Risk Analysis 28(4): 951-967.	Communicating about the health effects of fish and seafood may potentially result in a conflict situation: increasing intake is desirable because of health and nutritional benefits, but higher consumption may also lead to an increased intake of potentially harmful environmental contaminants. In order to anticipate the communication challenge this conflict may pose, the research presented here aimed to assess the impact of risk/benefit communication on Belgian consumers' fish consumption behavior and fish attribute perception. Data were collected in June 2005 from a sample of 381 women, aged between 20 and 50 years. An experimental design consisting of four message conditions (benefit-only; risk-only; benefit-risk; and risk-benefit) combined with three information sources (fish and food industry; consumer organization; government) was used. Exposure to the benefit-only message resulted in an increase from a self-reported fish consumption frequency of 4.2 times per month to an intended fish consumption frequency of 5.1 times per month (+21%), while fish attribute perceptions only marginally improved. The risk-only message resulted in a strong negative perceptual change in the range of two points on a seven-point scale. This translated into an 8% decrease of behavioral intention (from eating fish 4.5 times per month to an intention of eating fish 4.1 times per month). Balanced messages referring to both risks and benefits yielded no significant change in behavioral intention, despite a significant worsening of fish attribute perception. The presentation order of benefits and risks in the balanced message showed a tendency to affect both behavioral intention and attribute perception, with the first message component being most influential. Information source did not yield any significant impact either on behavioral intention or on attribute perceptions, independent of the message content. The results from this study provide valuable insights for future risk/benefit and balanced communication about seafood.

Verhoeven, P. (2008). "Where has the doctor gone? The mediazation of medicine on Dutch television, 1961-2000." Public Understanding of Science 17(4): 461-472.	Health issues and medical science receive a lot of attention on television. Of all the sciences, the European public is most interested in medicine, and the public uses television as their main source of information on science. There has been hardly any empirical research, however, into the historical development of the representation of medical science on television. The development of medical television was explored by carrying out a content analysis of Dutch non-fiction medical television programs spanning a period of 40 years. The speaking time allotted to experts has decreased over the years, while that allotted to laypeople has increased. We are seeing fewer references to sources and science and more expression of emotion and tension. The results suggest three periods of medical television: a scientific, a journalistic and a lay period. Medical television in 2000 shows a personified picture of patients against an instrumentalized and symbolized medical backdrop.

Verhoeven, P. (2010). "Sound-Bite Science: On the Brevity of Science and Scientific Experts in Western European Television News." Science Communication 32(3): 330-355.	Science forms an integral part of our daily lives and plays an important role in democratic deliberation and decision making. One would expect this omnipresence of science to be reflected in television news programs in public broadcasting because of its responsibility to preserve the diversity and openness of the media. For this study, a representative sample of six Western European news programs was analyzed. The results show that science has a marginal presence and that "science news" is about technology or the natural sciences. In national, foreign, or economic news items, "embedded" scientists rarely comment on the issue at hand.

Verroen, S., et al. (2013). "Enhancing Self-Protective Behavior: Efficacy Beliefs and Peer Feedback in Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 33(7): 1252-1264.	In times of a high-impact safety incident citizens may have a variety of sources available to help them cope with the situation. This research focuses on the interplay of efficacy information in risk communication messages and peer feedback, such as responses on social network sites (SNSs) in the context of a high-impact risk on the intention to engage in self-protective behavior. The study pitted high and low efficacy information messages against supporting and opposing peer feedback (N = 242). Results show a significant interaction effect between efficacy information in a news article and peer feedback from SNS messages on both the intention to engage in self-protective behavior and levels of involvement. Participants who received the article with more efficacy information and also received supportive peer feedback via SNS messages were more likely to express higher levels of involvement and greater intentions to engage in protective behavior. When confronted with a low efficacious news article, the effect of peer feedback on these two variables was significantly stronger. Finally, implications for theory and government risk communication are discussed.

Vestergard, G. L. and K. H. Nielsen (2017). "From the preserves of the educated elite to virtually everywhere: A content analysis of Danish science news in 1999 and 2012." Public Understanding of Science 26(2): 220-234.	In an attempt to qualify changes to science news reporting due to the impact of the Internet, we studied all science news articles published in Danish national newspapers in a November week in 1999 and 2012, respectively. We find the same amount of science coverage, about 4% of the total news production, in both years, although the tabloids produce more science news in 2012. Online science news also received high priority. Journalists in 2012 more often than in 1999 make reference to scientific journals and cite a wider range of journals. Science news in 2012 is more international and politically oriented than in 1999. Based on these findings, we suggest that science news, due partly to the emergence of online resources, is becoming more diverse and available to a wider audience. Science news is no longer for the elite but has spread to virtually everywhere in the national news system.

Vicsek, L. (2011). "Costs and Benefits of Stem Cell Research and Treatment: Media Presentation and Audience Understanding in Hungary." Science Communication 33(3): 309-340.	This study examined the press coverage and audience understanding of the costs and benefits of stem cell research/treatment in Hungary. A content analysis of five newspapers and a focus group study was conducted. The way participants talked about the costs and benefits in many aspects echoed the dominant framing of the issue in the press (medical benefits = main benefit, high expense of treatment = dominant negative aspect). Even though participants applied analogical reasoning to formulate some risks that were missing from the reporting on stem cells, many gaps of the media coverage were echoed in gaps in lay discussions.

Viklund, M. J. (2003). "Trust and risk perception in Western Europe: A cross-national study." Risk Analysis 23(4): 727-738.	The relationship between trust and risk perception was investigated, within and across four European countries (Sweden, Spain, United Kingdom, and France). Survey data were collected in 1996; total number of respondents was approximately 1,000 (United Kingdom and Spain), 1,350 (France), and 2,050 (Sweden). Trust was a significant predictor of perceived risk within countries, but the strength of the relationship varied from weak (Spain and France) to moderate (United Kingdom and Sweden). General trust was also a significant source of variation in perceived risk among countries, but much of the variation in perceived risk remained unexplained. Correlations between trust and risk perception also varied depending on the type of risk (i.e., nuclear risks were more influenced by trust) and trust measure (i.e., general trust explained perceived risk better than specific trust). It is concluded that trust may be an element in models explaining risk perception, but it is not as powerful as often argued in the risk perception literature.

Vincent, B. B. (2014). "The politics of buzzwords at the interface of technoscience, market and society: The case of 'public engagement in science'." Public Understanding of Science 23(3): 238-253.	Emerging technologies such as genomics, nanotechnology, and converging technologies are surrounded by a constellation of fashionable stereotyped phrases such as 'public engagement in science', 'responsible innovation', 'green technology', or 'personalised medicine'. Buzzwords are ubiquitous and used ad libitum by science policy makers, industrial companies in their advertisements, scientists in their research proposals, and journalists. Despite their proliferation in the language of scientific and technological innovation, these buzzwords have attracted little attention among science studies scholars. The purpose of this paper is to try to understand if, and how buzzwords shape the technoscientific landscape. What do they perform? What do they reveal? What do they conceal? Based on a case study of the phrase 'public engagement in science', this paper describes buzzwords as linguistic technologies, capable of three major performances: buzzwords generate matters of concern and play an important role in trying to build consensus; they set attractive goals and agendas; they create unstable collectives through noise.

Visschers, V. H. M., et al. (2007). "An associative approach to risk perception: Measuring the effects of risk communications directly and indirectly." Journal of Risk Research 10(3): 371-383.	Risk perception is often measured by a direct method, e. g., a questionnaire. This mainly reveals the deliberate evaluation of a risk (a so-called secondary evaluative process), whereas risk perception can also be based on a first, spontaneous reaction (a primary evaluative process). An indirect test such as the Extrinsic Affective Simon Task (EAST, De Houwer, 2003) may be needed to reveal this first, spontaneous reaction. In this study, a questionnaire and an EAST measured the effects of varying risk communications (high risk, low risk or control article), about high-voltage power lines. The results of the EAST showed that the respondents associated power lines stronger with unhealthy than with healthy. However, the questionnaire results did not seem to indicate that the respondents considered power lines as risky. The EAST did not reveal an effect of article variation on the associations of power lines with (un) healthy. Conversely, the questionnaire results showed that article variation influenced the secondary evaluative process. Further, our findings demonstrated that the direct and indirect measures were unrelated. An indirect test may complement a direct test to get an overall picture of how people evaluate risks.

Visschers, V. H. M., et al. (2008). "Audiovisual risk communication unravelled: effects on gut feelings and cognitive processes." Journal of Risk Research 11(1-2): 207-221.	Audiovisual material is increasingly applied in risk communication (e.g., information films on the Internet) to affect the public's risk perception. This study investigated how the sound/footage and text of videos can influence two processes of risk perception: a primary (associative) and a secondary (deliberate) evaluative process. Our main hypothesis was that the sound/footage of a video would particularly influence the primary evaluative process and its text would affect the secondary evaluative process. This was investigated using a two (text: yes/no) by two (sound/footage: yes/no) design. We applied an indirect test to measure the videos' effects on the primary evaluative process (the Extrinsic Affective Simon Task) and a direct test (questionnaire) to assess the effects on the secondary evaluative process. These two tests were applied immediately after the respondents had seen one of the videos and two weeks later. Text appeared to affect the self-reported risk perception (questionnaire) only at the first measurement. Sound/footage influenced risk perception as measured by the EAST merely at the second measurement. The results are discussed in light of the two risk perception processes.

Visschers, V. H. M., et al. (2007). "How does the general public evaluate risk information? The impact of associations with other risks." Risk Analysis 27(3): 715-727.	There is a considerable body of knowledge about the way people perceive risks using heuristics and qualitative characteristics, and about how risk information should be communicated to the public. However, little is known about the way people use the perception of known risks (associated risks) to judge an unknown risk. In a first, qualitative study, six different risks were discussed in in-depth interviews and focus group interviews. The interviews showed that risk associations played a prominent role in forming risk perceptions. Associated risks were often mentioned spontaneously. Second, a survey study was conducted to confirm the importance of risk associations quantitatively. This study investigated whether people related unknown risks to known risks. This was indeed confirmed. Furthermore, some insight was gained into how and why people form risk associations. Results showed that the semantic category of the unknown risks was more important in forming associations than the perceived level of risk or specific risk characteristics. These findings were in line with the semantic network theory. Based on these two studies, we recommend using the mental models approach in developing new risk communications.

Visschers, V. H. M., et al. (2009). "Probability Information in Risk Communication: A Review of the Research Literature." Risk Analysis 29(2): 267-287.	Communicating probability information about risks to the public is more difficult than might be expected. Many studies have examined this subject, so that their resulting recommendations are scattered over various publications, diverse research fields, and are about different presentation formats. An integration of empirical findings in one review would be useful therefore to describe the evidence base for communication about probability information and to present the recommendations that can be made so far. We categorized the studies in the following presentation formats: frequencies, percentages, base rates and proportions, absolute and relative risk reduction, cumulative probabilities, verbal probability information, numerical versus verbal probability information, graphs, and risk ladders. We suggest several recommendations for these formats. Based on the results of our review, we show that the effects of presentation format depend not only on the type of format, but also on the context in which the format is used. We therefore argue that the presentation format has the strongest effect when the receiver processes probability information heuristically instead of systematically. We conclude that future research and risk communication practitioners should not only concentrate on the presentation format of the probability information but also on the situation in which this message is presented, as this may predict how people process the information and how this may influence their interpretation of the risk.

Visschers, V. H. M., et al. (2012). "Affect-inducing risk communication: current knowledge and future directions." Journal of Risk Research 15(3): 257-271.	Affect appears to have a central role in people's risk perception and decision-making. It is, therefore, important that researchers and communicators know how risk communication can induce affect or more specific emotions. In this paper, several studies that examined affect-inducing cues presented in and around risk communication are discussed. We thereby distinguish between integral affect induction, meaning through the risk message, and incidental affect induction, which occurs unintentional through the risk communication context. The following cues are discussed: emotion induction, fear appeals, outrage factors, risk stories, probability information, uncertainty information and graphs and images. Relatively few studies assessed the effect of their risk communication material on affect or specific emotions. Incidental affect induction appeared to occur more often than expected based on its factual content. Risk communication easily seems to induce affect incidentally and, thus, may be difficult to control. We, therefore, argue that incidental affect induction is more influential than integral affect induction. Implications for further research and risk communication in practice are given. Based on this overview, we strongly suggest considering and empirically assessing the affect-inducing potential of risk communication formats and content during their development and evaluation.

Vlek, C. (2018). "Induced Earthquakes from Long-Term Gas Extraction in Groningen, the Netherlands: Statistical Analysis and Prognosis for Acceptable-Risk Regulation." Risk Analysis 38(7): 1455-1473.	Recently, growing earthquake activity in the northeastern Netherlands has aroused considerable concern among the 600,000 provincial inhabitants. There, at 3 km deep, the rich Groningen gas field extends over 900 km(2) and still contains about 600 of the original 2,800 billion cubic meters (bcm). Particularly after 2001, earthquakes have increased in number, magnitude (M, on the logarithmic Richter scale), and damage to numerous buildings. The man-made nature of extraction-induced earthquakes challenges static notions of risk, complicates formal risk assessment, and questions familiar conceptions of acceptable risk. Here, a 26-year set of 294 earthquakes with M 1.5 is statistically analyzed in relation to increasing cumulative gas extraction since 1963. Extrapolations from a fast-rising trend over 2001-2013 indicate thatunder business as usualaround 2021 some 35 earthquakes with M 1.5 might occur annually, including four with M 2.5 (ten-fold stronger), and one with M 3.5 every 2.5 years. Given this uneasy prospect, annual gas extraction has been reduced from 54 bcm in 2013 to 24 bcm in 2017. This has significantly reduced earthquake activity, so far. However, when extraction is stabilized at 24 bcm per year for 2017-2021 (or 21.6 bcm, as judicially established in Nov. 2017), the annual number of earthquakes would gradually increase again, with an expected all-time maximum M approximate to 4.5. Further safety management may best follow distinct stages of seismic risk generation, with moderation of gas extraction and massive (but late and slow) building reinforcement as outstanding strategies. Officially, acceptable risk is mainly approached by quantification of risk (e.g., of fatal building collapse) for testing against national safety standards, but actual (local) risk estimation remains problematic. Additionally important are societal cost-benefit analysis, equity considerations, and precautionary restraint. Socially and psychologically, deliberate attempts are made to improve risk communication, reduce public anxiety, and restore people's confidence in responsible experts and policymakers.

Vogt, C. (2012). "The spiral of scientific culture and cultural well-being: Brazil and Ibero-America." Public Understanding of Science 21(1): 4-16.	The set of factors, events and actions of mankind in the social processes dedicated to the production the dissemination, the teaching and the publication of scientific knowledge constitutes the conditions for the development of a particular type of culture, quite commonplace in the contemporary world, which may be called scientific culture. In this article, we intend to present the representation of the dynamics of this area of knowledge in the form of a spiral: The Spiral of Scientific Culture. Also, we introduce the term cultural well-being - the kind of comfort, other than the social well-being, which has to do with society's relationships with the technosciences, involving values and attitudes, habits and information, and presupposing an actively critical participation on the part of that society in the totality of these relationships.

von Essen, E. (2017). "Whose Discourse Is It Anyway? Understanding Resistance through the Rise of "Barstool Biology" in Nature Conservation." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(4): 470-489.	This study examines what happens when contentious lay citizens harness the technical-ecological repertoire of experts as means of challenging nature conservation policy. The causes, manifestations, and implications of this phenomenon are elucidated through a critical discourse analysis. The case study is based on the wolf reintroduction project in Europe, with particular focus on Sweden, using illegal hunting discussions as a point of entry within the hunting community. It reveals the deployment of three topoi, which are defined as stock arguments situated within a discourse. Analysis shows how while some topoi often incur short-term gains in the debate because of their scientific guise, they are fundamentally relegated as folk science (or barstool biology) by government experts and, in some cases, contribute to the further marginalization of other knowledges. Acquiescence to this discourse is shown to greatly impede the debate. Finally, the study shows how lack of trust in the public dialog, which hunters openly recognize to be colonized by ecological expertise, results in increasingly noncommunicative forms of resistance toward policy.

von Essen, E. and M. P. Allen (2017). "Solidarity Between Human and Non-Human Animals: Representing Animal Voices in Policy Deliberations." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(5): 641-653.	In this paper, we discuss the bridging potential of "interspecies" solidarity between the often incommensurable ethics of care and justice. Indeed, we show that the Environmental Communication literature emphasizes feelings of care and compassion as vectors of responsibility taking for animals. But we also show that a growing field of Political Animal Rights suggest that such responsibility taking should instead be grounded in universalizable terms of justice. Our argument is that a dual conception of solidarity can bridge this divide: On the one hand, solidarity as a pre-political relation with animals and, on the other hand, as a political practice based on open public deliberation of universalizable claims to justice; that is, claims to justice advanced by human proxy representatives of vulnerable non-humans. Such a dual conception can both challenge and validate NGOs' claims to "speak on behalf of animals" in policy following the Aarhus Convention, indeed underwriting the Convention by insights from internatural communication in solidarity as relation, and by subjecting it to rational scrutiny in minipublics in solidary as practice.

von Essen, E. and M. P. Allen (2017). "From Obstructionism to Communication: Local, National and Transnational Dimensions of Contestations on the Swedish Wolf Cull Controversy." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 11(5): 654-666.	Two obstructionist ways of doing politics on contentious wildlife management issues currently reflect a legitimacy deficit in official channels for public engagement. The first is that of a pernicious "directaction" politics, in the form of resort by hunters in rural Sweden to illegal killings of protected wolves over whose policy they contest. The second obstruction is when environmental non-governmental organizations routinely file appeals in higher-level courtrooms contesting democratically mandated wolf cull decisions. Although markedly different when it comes to their categorically deliberative values as well as fidelity to the law, we argue both extra-legal and the litigative phenomena reflect disenfranchisement with the participation channels in which such controversies may be resolved through a public dialogue. We also argue that both possess negative systemic deliberative value inasmuch as they frustrate goals of reaching deliberative consensus, by contributing to a stalled public communication on wolf management. We address this deficit by appeal to recent developments in the theory and practice of mini-publics that promote both the categorical and systemic deliberative value of channeling contestation. In particular, we appeal to a novel conception of hunter-initiated, but citizen controlled, mini-publics as a vehicle for restarting stalled public communication on wolf conservation.

von Mossner, A. W. (2011). "Reframing Katrina: The Color of Disaster in Spike Lee's When the Levees Broke." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 5(2): 146-165.	Spike Lee's four-hour HBO documentary film When the Levees Broke about Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath uses the tragic events around the storm as an occasion to consider the continued significance of race and class in the inequitable distribution of environmental hazards in the United States, while at the same time celebrating traditional New Orleans culture. Lee's film gives voice to those who were directly affected by the Katrina disaster and reminds us that for historical and socio-political reasons African-American and other minority perspectives on issues of sustainability are necessarily different from those of mainstream environmentalists. Through its powerful presentation of these alternative perspectives and needs, When the Levees Broke raises awareness for the fact that any concept for a osustainableo New Orleans that does not address the enormous class and race-based inequities within the city will be unjust and thus fundamentally flawed.

von Roten, F. C. (2004). "Gender differences in attitudes toward science in Switzerland." Public Understanding of Science 13(2): 191-199.	This article addresses the debate initiated in this journal on analyses exploring the extent to which sociodemographic background and scientific knowledge explain gender differences in attitudes toward science. Using data from a nationally stratified Swiss survey on attitudes toward science, initial results suggest that, although men have more positive attitudes toward science and greater levels of scientific knowledge than women, gender differences are non-significant once the sociodemographic variables are included in the multiple regression models. More specifically, scientific knowledge and education have an independent effect on attitudes toward science. However, the interpretation of these results is slightly different if the hypothesis, that the effect of any single explanatory variable is the same among men and women in the regression model, is validated. Results show that the interaction between gender and scientific knowledge is significant, so that the effect of scientific knowledge on attitude toward science depends on gender.

von Roten, F. C. (2006). "Do we need a public understanding of statistics?" Public Understanding of Science 15(2): 243-249.	This paper explores arguments in favor of a public understanding of statistics and suggests its possible contributions to the analysis of surveys of attitudes toward science. Statistics permeates all aspects of life-from education, work, media, and health, to citizenship. For example, most media reporting includes statistical references to health, social and demographic trends, education, and economics. The pervasiveness of statistics poses a problem, as statistics is a difficult discipline associated with misunderstandings, which ruin trust and lead to misgivings. Civic scientific literacy covers statistics insufficiently, both theoretically and empirically. Finally, this paper formulates new explanations, built on statistical literacy, of empirical results found in surveys of attitudes toward science and suggests modes for the development of statistical literacy in this context.

von Roten, F. C. (2011). "Gender Differences in Scientists' Public Outreach and Engagement Activities." Science Communication 33(1): 52-75.	Science communication research has tended to focus on the perceptions of the public and has often neglected the views of scientists. This article analyzes public outreach and engagement attitudes and activities of women scientists; it is based on a case study conducted in Switzerland. The survey results found that attitudes toward public outreach and engagement activities are the same among men and women scientists, but that activities are done significantly more often by men scientists than by women scientists. A multivariate analysis showed that there is a gender difference in the level of activities even after the effects of position, age, and faculty are removed. Because public outreach and engagement activities may be due to either scientists' initiatives or media initiatives, the author analyzed media contacts. The media contact women scientists less often than men scientists-and this independently of position, age, and faculty. When comparing men's and women's improvements for public outreach and engagement, this study found significant differences that can be used to tailor incentives for each group of scientists.

von Roten, F. C. (2013). "Public perceptions of animal experimentation across Europe." Public Understanding of Science 22(6): 691-703.	The goal of this article is to map out public perceptions of animal experimentation in 28 European countries. Postulating cross-cultural differences, this study mixes country-level variables (from the Eurostat database) and individual-level variables (from Eurobarometer Science and Technology 2010). It is shown that experimentation on animals such as mice is generally accepted in European countries, but perceptions are divided on dogs and monkeys. Between 2005 and 2010, we observe globally a change of approval on dogs and monkeys, with a significant decrease in nine countries. Multilevel analysis results show differences at country level (related to a post-industrialism model) and at individual level (related to gender, age, education, proximity and perceptions of science and the environment). These results may have consequences for public perceptions of science and we call for more cross-cultural research on press coverage of animal research and on the level of public engagement of scientists doing animal research.

von Roten, F. C. (2016). "Statistics in Public Understanding of Science review: How to achieve high statistical standards?" Public Understanding of Science 25(2): 135-140.	This article proposes a checklist to improve statistical reporting in the manuscripts submitted to Public Understanding of Science. Generally, these guidelines will allow the reviewers (and readers) to judge whether the evidence provided in the manuscript is relevant. The article ends with other suggestions for a better statistical quality of the journal.

von Roten, F. C. and Y. de Roten (2013). "Statistics in science and in society: From a state-of-the-art to a new research agenda." Public Understanding of Science 22(7): 768-784.	Statistics occupies a prominent role in science and citizens' daily life. This article provides a state-of-the-art of the problems associated with statistics in science and in society, structured along the three paradigms defined by Bauer, Allum and Miller (2007). It explores in more detail medicine and public understanding of science on the one hand, and risks and surveys on the other. Statistics has received a good deal of attention; however, very often handled in terms of deficit - either of scientists or of citizens. Many tools have been proposed to improve statistical literacy, the image of and trust in statistics, but with little understanding of their roots, with little coordination among stakeholders and with few assessments of impacts. These deficiencies represent as many new and promising directions in which the PUS research agenda could be expanded.

Vonortas, N. S. (1997). "Commentary: Intellectual property rights and knowledge dissemination in research joint ventures." Science Communication 19(1): 81-92.	Intellectual property rights affect the incentives of firms to participate in research joint ventures, collaborate efficiently with their partners, and exploit the knowledge created by a joint venture. Economists and policy analysts know little about the effects of intellectual property rights on the rate of formation, organization, nature of research, and expected economic impacts of research joint ventures. The proliferation of interfirm cooperation in R&D requires addressing those issues. It also requires a better understanding of the relationship between intellectual property rights and national innovation systems.

Vos, S. C., et al. (2018). "Retweeting Risk Communication: The Role of Threat and Efficacy." Risk Analysis 38(12): 2580-2598.	Social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook provide risk communicators with the opportunity to quickly reach their constituents at the time of an emerging infectious disease. On these platforms, messages gain exposure through message passing (called "sharing" on Facebook and "retweeting" on Twitter). This raises the question of how to optimize risk messages for diffusion across networks and, as a result, increase message exposure. In this study we add to this growing body of research by identifying message-level strategies to increase message passing during high-ambiguity events. In addition, we draw on the extended parallel process model to examine how threat and efficacy information influence the passing of Zika risk messages. In August 2016, we collected 1,409 Twitter messages about Zika sent by U.S. public health agencies' accounts. Using content analysis methods, we identified intrinsic message features and then analyzed the influence of those features, the account sending the message, the network surrounding the account, and the saliency of Zika as a topic, using negative binomial regression. The results suggest that severity and efficacy information increase how frequently messages get passed on to others. Drawing on the results of this study, previous research on message passing, and diffusion theories, we identify a framework for risk communication on social media. This framework includes four key variables that influence message passing and identifies a core set of message strategies, including message timing, to increase exposure to risk messages on social media during high-ambiguity events.

Voskuhl, A. (2003). "Public science: Electricity in the German enlightenment." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 342-343.
	
Vraga, E. K. and L. Bode (2017). "Using Expert Sources to Correct Health Misinformation in Social Media." Science Communication 39(5): 621-645.	This study tests whether the number (1 vs. 2) and the source (another user vs. the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC]) of corrective responses affect successful reduction of misperceptions. Using an experimental design, our results suggest that while a single correction from another user did not reduce misperceptions, the CDC on its own could correct misinformation. Corrections were more effective among those higher in initial misperceptions. Notably, organizational credibility was not reduced when correcting misinformation, making this a low-cost behavior for public health organizations. We recommend that expert organizations like the CDC immediately and personally rebut misinformation about health issues on social media.

Vyncke, B., et al. (2017). "Information Sources as Explanatory Variables for the Belgian Health-Related Risk Perception of the Fukushima Nuclear Accident." Risk Analysis 37(3): 570-582.	The media play an important role in risk communication, providing information about accidents, both nearby and far away. Each media source has its own presentation style, which could influence how the audience perceives the presented risk. This study investigates the explanatory power of 12 information sources (traditional media, new media, social media, and interpersonal communication) for the perceived risk posed by radiation released from the damaged Fukushima nuclear power plant on respondents' own health and that of the population in general. The analysis controlled for attitude toward nuclear energy, gender, education, satisfaction with the media coverage, and duration of attention paid to the coverage. The study uses a large empirical data set from a public opinion survey, which is representative for the Belgian population with respect to six sociodemographic variables. Results show that three information sources are significant regressors of perceived health-related risk of the nuclear accident: television, interpersonal communication, and the category of miscellaneous online sources. More favorable attitudes toward nuclear power, longer attention to the coverage, and higher satisfaction with the provided information lead to lower risk perception. Taken together, the results suggest that the media can indeed have a modest influence on how the audience perceives a risk.

Wachinger, G., et al. (2013). "The Risk Perception Paradox-Implications for Governance and Communication of Natural Hazards." Risk Analysis 33(6): 1049-1065.	This article reviews the main insights from selected literature on risk perception, particularly in connection with natural hazards. It includes numerous case studies on perception and social behavior dealing with floods, droughts, earthquakes, volcano eruptions, wild fires, and landslides. The review reveals that personal experience of a natural hazard and trustor lack of trustin authorities and experts have the most substantial impact on risk perception. Cultural and individual factors such as media coverage, age, gender, education, income, social status, and others do not play such an important role but act as mediators or amplifiers of the main causal connections between experience, trust, perception, and preparedness to take protective actions. When analyzing the factors of experience and trust on risk perception and on the likeliness of individuals to take preparedness action, the review found that a risk perception paradox exists in that it is assumed that high risk perception will lead to personal preparedness and, in the next step, to risk mitigation behavior. However, this is not necessarily true. In fact, the opposite can occur if individuals with high risk perception still choose not to personally prepare themselves in the face of a natural hazard. Therefore, based on the results of the review, this article offers three explanations suggesting why this paradox might occur. These findings have implications for future risk governance and communication as well as for the willingness of individuals to invest in risk preparedness or risk mitigation actions.

Wagner, K. (2007). "Mental models of flash floods and landslides." Risk Analysis 27(3): 671-682.	Perceptions of flash floods and landslides were analyzed in four communities of the Bavarian Alps using the mental model approach. Thirty-eight qualitative interviews, two telephone surveys with 600 respondents, and two onsite interviews (74/95 respondents) were conducted. Mental models concerning flash floods are much better developed than those for landslides because the key physical processes for flash floods are easier for the general public to recognize and understand. Mental models are influenced by the local conditions. People who have a better knowledge about the hazards are those who use many different sources to inform themselves, express fear about natural hazards, or have previous experience with hazards. Conclusions for how to improve information for the general public are discussed.

Wagner, T. (2008). "Reframing Ecotage as Ecoterrorism: News and the Discourse of Fear." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(1): 25-39.	This study examined how national newspapers have participated in the production and reproduction of the discourse on ecotage through a lens of terrorism. The approach used in this study is to apply the thesis of Altheide (2003) that mass media uses the discourse of fear to report on acts of terrorism. Through a content analysis of six national newspapers, this study sought to answer two questions: Do national newspapers frame ecotage acts primarily as terrorism? If ecotage is framed as terrorism, is the discourse of fear used in stories that discuss ecotage? Using 20 search terms commonly used to describe ecotage acts, 155 news stories were found from 1984 to 2006. Based on an analysis of these stories, there was a marked shift in framing ecotage as terrorism starting in 2001, but before 9/11. Increasingly the discourse of fear has been used to indicate the seriousness of ecoterrorism. In addition to this shift and use of fear, the volume of stories has increased, yet the number of reported incidences of ecotage has steadily declined over this same period.

Wagner, W. (2007). "Vernacular science knowledge: its role in everyday life communication." Public Understanding of Science 16(1): 7-22.	This paper argues that our understanding of how the public understands science is incomplete as long as we do not answer the question of why, under which conditions, and in which form the general public assimilate scientific background knowledge. Everyday life and communication are governed by criteria of social efficiency and evidence. Under the conditions of everyday life, it is sufficient for the lay person to possess and employ metaphoric and iconic representations of scientific facts-called "vernacular science knowledge"-that are wrong in scientific terms, as long as they are able to serve as acceptable and legitimate belief systems in discourses with other lay people. These representations are tools for a purpose that follow local rules of communication. Research within the framework of Social Representation Theory-collective symbolic coping with biotechnology in Europe, lay understanding of sexual conception, as well as traditional versus modern psychiatric knowledge in India-is presented to illustrate.

Wagner-Egger, P., et al. (2011). "Lay perceptions of collectives at the outbreak of the H1N1 epidemic: heroes, villains and victims." Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 461-476.	Lay perceptions of collectives (e.g., groups, organizations, countries) implicated in the 2009 H1N1 outbreak were studied. Collectives serve symbolic functions to help laypersons make sense of the uncertainty involved in a disease outbreak. We argue that lay representations are dramatized, featuring characters like heroes, villains and victims. In interviews conducted soon after the outbreak, 47 Swiss respondents discussed the risk posed by H1N1, its origins and effects, and protective measures. Countries were the most frequent collectives mentioned. Poor, underdeveloped countries were depicted as victims, albeit ambivalently, as they were viewed as partly responsible for their own plight. Experts (physicians, researchers) and political and health authorities were depicted as heroes. Two villains emerged: the media (viewed as fear mongering or as a puppet serving powerful interests) and private corporations (e.g., the pharmaceutical industry). Laypersons' framing of disease threat diverges substantially from official perspectives.

Walker, G. B. (2007). "Public Participation as Participatory Communication in Environmental Policy Decision-Making: From Concepts to Structured Conversations." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(1): 99-110.	This essay attempts to distinguish between traditional notions of public participation and participatory communication, particularly as currently practiced in non-US settings. In addition, specific tools for facilitating participatory communication are identified and discussed. The essay is based on the author's extensive experience as a conflict mediator and public participation consultant and scholar. For the past 15 years, the author has served as a consultant on matters of environmental conflict resolution, public participation, and community-based collaboration for federal and state agencies and NGOs, including the USDA Forest Service, the USDI Bureau of Land Management, the US Army Corps of Engineers, the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, and the Nature Conservancy.

Walker, V. R. (1995). "Direct Inference, Probability, and a Conceptual Gulf in Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 15(5): 603-609.	Differences in the conceptual frameworks of scientists and nonscientists may create barriers to risk communication. This article examines two such conceptual problems. First, the logic of ''direct inference'' from group statistics to probabilities about specific individuals suggests that individuals might be acting rationally in refusing to apply tb themselves the conclusions of regulatory risk assessments. Second, while regulators and risk assessment scientists often use an ''objectivist'' or ''relative frequency'' interpretation of probability statements, members of the public are more likely to adopt a ''subjectivist'' or ''degree of confidence'' interpretation when estimating their personal risks, and either misunderstand or significantly discount the relevance of risk assessment conclusions. If these analyses of inference and probability are correct, there may be a conceptual gulf at the center of risk communication that cannot be bridged by additional data about the magnitude of group risk. Suggestions are made for empirical studies that might help regulators deal with this conceptual gulf.

Walker, V. R. (1996). "Risk characterization and the weight of evidence: Adapting gatekeeping concepts from the courts." Risk Analysis 16(6): 793-799.	Risk characterization objectives include evaluating the weight of evidence underlying risk determinations, communicating that evaluation to nonexperts, guiding risk assessors to achieve consistency, and preserving deference for those reasonable expert judgments inherent in any risk determination. Similar objectives are shared by American courts that face the gatekeeping task of screening scientific evidence before it is presented to nonexpert factfinders, such as juries. This article surveys the judicial gatekeeping concepts of relevance, evidentiary reliability, legal sufficiency, presumptions, and standards of proof particularly, preponderance of the evidence). It examines recent court decisions that have applied these concepts to the kinds of scientific information common in risk assessments, and suggests how to adapt these gatekeeping concepts for use in weight-of-evidence characterization. If we can develop and adopt a neutral framework for characterizing the weight of evidence underlying risk assessments, it might help clarify not only the current debate over risk characterization and risk management, but also the drafting of treaty provisions, such as those invoking the Precautionary Principle of international environmental law.

Wall, E. (2014). "Sense-making of risk and role-taking emotions: how young Swedes construe road traffic risk." Journal of Risk Research 17(10): 1285-1299.	The aim of this study is to improve our understanding of how young people make sense of traffic risk. The study also aims to contribute to current theory by refining the concept of 'sense-making of risk'. The focus is to explore, empirically as well as theoretically, how role-taking emotions can contribute to this particular area of research. In order to chart both the sense-making of social interaction and the respondents' subjective sense of traffic risk, the present study used both in-depth interviews and focus group interviews: the in-depth interviews comprised a total of 11 interviews with as many interviewees, while a total of 36 people were included in the eight focus group interviews. All interviewees were Swedish residents aged between 16 and 20. It is found that by adopting the perspective afforded by theory of emotion, it is possible to deepen our knowledge of individual sense-making of risk. Both primary emotions and role-taking emotions seem to be central to how young Swedes form their understanding of traffic risk. A focus on role-taking emotions reveals the value of indirect social interaction for the individual's sense-making of risk in general, and adds to our knowledge of the individual's sense-making of traffic risk in particular.

Wallman, S. (1998). "Ordinary women and shapes of knowledge: perspectives on the context of STD and AIDS." Public Understanding of Science 7(2): 169-185.	In Europe, as well as in Africa HIV-related studies of women tend to focus on narrowly-defined professional, behavioral, or reproductive categories. The research population for this study of symptom definition and treatment-seeking among women in Kampala Uganda, was defined only by residence in one few-income "parish" of that city. Its practical justification is the association of STD and HIV: effective treatment of (curable) STD can reduce the risk of HIV infection.
STD and AIDS, however prevalent, are never the only things ordinary people have to worry about; their capacity for preventing, managing, or explaining infection is dependent on the range of other things that may be happening in their lives. An analyst-observer's view is by contrast narrower, and the context of scientific understanding is different. This paper sets out an approach that stresses the differences between "real people" knowledge and scientific or professional knowledge about the problem, and between practical and symbolic levels of context. In the light of this approach the seeming chaos of what these women do-or do not do-about getting treatment for STD becomes intelligible.
I conclude that the contingency of context and the gap between "real" and "scientific" understanding combine to account for the normal inconsistency of social data, and that the proper use of a context perspective renders these data intelligible.

Walls, J., et al. (2011). "Stakeholder engagement in food risk management: Evaluation of an iterated workshop approach." Public Understanding of Science 20(2): 241-260.	There are considerable uncertainties regarding how stakeholder engagement should be enacted. The lack of clear guidelines on good practice is arguably a consequence of an absence of evaluations on the effectiveness of past engagement exercises. Here we describe the evaluation of one engagement event concerning food risk management. This event involved presenting a novel food risk analysis model to key stakeholders in two workshops (in 2005 and 2007) in order to gather opinions and to consider the model's likely impact on the wider community. The workshops and their evaluation, using elements of a previously developed evaluation framework, are described. The discussion emphasises how the organisers utilised the first evaluation report in order to improve the subsequent workshop. In the concluding section, the merits of both the engagement process and the methods used to evaluate it are discussed. Broader lessons for the academic, practitioner and policy communities are developed.

Walmsley, H. (2010). "Biobanking, public consultation, and the discursive logics of deliberation: Five lessons from British Columbia." Public Understanding of Science 19(4): 452-468.	Genomics-related "deliberative" public consultations are all the rage. Drawing from theories of deliberative democracy, run by social scientists, governments and non-profit organizations globally, these events can produce valuable insights and governance solutions. There is a danger, however, of "deliberation" being viewed by its new practitioners as a homogenous "tool" due to a marked lack of analysis of the discursive processes at play. This paper addresses this gap, employing the discourse theory of Laclau to analyze small and large group deliberation at a public consultation on biobanking in British Columbia (BC), Canada, during 2007. Ethnographic and transcript analysis reveals small group deliberation to be a two-stage process, operating according to two different discursive logics. The paper concludes with five lessons for theorists and practitioners of deliberative public engagement with science.

Walsh, L. (2015). "The Double-Edged Sword of Popularization: The Role of Science Communication Research in the Popsci.com Comment Shutoff." Science Communication 37(5): 658-669.	The decision by Popsci.com editors to shut off public comments in 2013 surprised many scholars of science journalismparticularly since the decision was justified in large part by reference to science communication scholarship. This commentary engages in a rhetorical analysis of the events surrounding the decisionin particular, the popularization of Anderson et al. (2014), the editorial stance at Popsci.com, and the content of blog comments leading up to the shutoffto better appreciate what led to the foreclosure of a significant forum for protodeliberation on science research and policy.

Walsh, L. and A. B. Ross (2015). "The Visual Invention Practices of STEM Researchers: An Exploratory Topology." Science Communication 37(1): 118-139.	This article presents results from a qualitative pilot survey of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) researchers concerning techniques used to create graphics for research articles. The survey aimed to induce a methodological vocabulary for a larger project designed to describe and improve STEM visual literacy for nonexperts. However, the survey also revealed interesting problems for investigationchief among them a mismatch between STEM visual pedagogy and praxis. In addition, participants supplied a handlist of STEM visual communication texts that have informed their praxis. Survey results are presented in the form of a topologya frequency-based representation of the topics framing participants' discussion of STEM visual invention.

Walter, N., et al. (2018). "Communication Ecologies: Analyzing Adoption of False Beliefs in an Information-Rich Environment." Science Communication 40(5): 650-668.	The continued fragmentation of information and the proliferation of communication resources necessitate a shift toward perspectives that situate communication practices in a multilevel ecosystem. The current article offers a method to map and analyze communication ecologiesdefined as the networks of communication connections that individuals depend on in order to construct knowledge and achieve goalsas social networks. To demonstrate the potential of communication ecologies as an analytical tool in science communication, we report on the results of a feasibility study (N = 654) in the context of climate science and vaccine safety. The article discusses the theoretical and practical implications of the communication ecology approach.

Walter, S., et al. (2018). "Echo Chambers of Denial: Explaining User Comments on Climate Change." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(2): 204-217.	Although there is a broad consensus among scientists and journalists about the existence of anthropogenic climate change as a global problem, some segments of the population remain doubtful about the human impact on it. The internet provides citizens with opportunities to publicly voice their doubts and user comment sections of online media are a popular form of user-generated content. This study identifies factors that foster comments that are sceptical or supportive of basic assumptions of anthropogenic climate change, drawing on online news in the US, the UK, Germany, India, and Switzerland. The results show that users adapt to the dominant opinion within the respective media outlet: user comment sections serve as echo chambers rather than as corrective mechanisms. Climate change denial is more visible in user comment sections in countries where the climate change debate reflects the scientific consensus on climate change and user comments create niches of denial.

Walters, L. M. and T. N. Walters (1996). "It loses something in the translation - Syntax and survival of key words in science and nonscience press releases." Science Communication 18(2): 165-180.	This article examines the relationship between public relations practitioner and journalist in the transmission of the language of science to the public. By comparing the output of a public relations office with the newspaper stories that appeared ar a result of the office's effort the authors show that while newspapers simplify both science and nonscience releases, some science stories are less edited than nonscience releases. The findings support the notion that the media sharpen and level science stories, but they also suggest that simple apportionment of releases and articles into science and nonscience categories does not fully explain the process. That is because some science stories are edited differently than other science stories.

Wand, P. A. (1995). "Technological-Change, Intellectual Property, and Academic-Libraries - an Outline of the Issues - Commentary." Science Communication 17(2): 233-239.	Observations are made from the perspective of an academic librarian who is concerned with both protecting the rights of intellectual property holders and ensuring the fair use of information for the creation of new knowledge and the common good The article comments on several factors related to intellectual property (political, economic, and cultural contexts, time constraints, and the nature of software and cyberspace) that were contained in papers presented at a 1995 conference. The author concludes by recommending that a new legislative model be designed to address appropriately the complexities of intellectual property in the on-line environment.

Wang, G. Y. and J. F. Du (2018). "One Hundred Thousand Whys: A Classic in Chinese Book History." Science Communication 40(5): 678-688.	One Hundred Thousand Whys is a widely known popular science book in China, which has been developing people's systematic understanding of basic sciences for generations. This encyclopedic book covers a wide range of topics, inspiring people's observations and pondering about the world by asking nonspecialist questions. Different questions are raised and followed by answers that satisfy readers' scientific curiosity; cultivate the scientific literacy of generations of children, and even of adults; and make up for the shortcomings of scientific education in China's schools. In the past half-century, it has become a legend and classic in Chinese publishing history.

Wang, G. Y., et al. (2017). "Cover stories: An emerging aesthetic of prestige science." Public Understanding of Science 26(8): 925-936.	Our statistical analysis of research publications in the prestigious scientific journals Nature, Science and Cell reveals that papers represented by an image on the journal's cover gain many more citations in the academic literature than those papers in the same journals that are not represented on the cover. Meanwhile, the number of images used by high-prestige journals is much higher than that used by journals in general, which indicates both the emergence of a new aesthetic of prestige scientific publication, and also that this aesthetic is relevant to journals' impact. Furthermore, there are significant differences in the use of images in different countries and in different disciplines.

Wang, W. R. and L. Guo (2018). "Framing genetically modified mosquitoes in the online news and Twitter: Intermedia frame setting in the issue-attention cycle." Public Understanding of Science 27(8): 937-951.	We investigate how the online news and Twitter framed the discussion about genetically modified mosquitoes, and the interplay between the two media platforms. The study is grounded in the theoretical frameworks of intermedia agenda setting, framing, and the issue-attention cycle and combines methods of manual and computational content analysis, and time series analysis. The findings show that the Twitter discussion was more benefit-oriented, while the news coverage was more balanced. Initially, Twitter played a leading role in framing the discussion about genetically modified mosquitoes. When the public learned about the issue, online news gained momentum and led the Twitter publics to discuss the risks of genetically modified mosquitoes. Based on the findings, we argue that the intermedia frame setting may change its direction over time, and different media outlets may be influential in leading different aspects of the conversation.

Wang, X. (2017). "Understanding Climate Change Risk Perceptions in China: Media Use, Personal Experience, and Cultural Worldviews." Science Communication 39(3): 291-312.	Based on a survey of 516 Chinese consumers, the present analysis revealed that climate- and environment-related media use (e.g., news and other information) positively predicted policy support in China, whereas personal experience positively predicted perceptions of risks to humans and the nonhuman environment. Perceived risks to humans and the nonhuman environment were used as two different variables. After controlling for various demographic variables, cultural worldviews, and media use, risks to the nonhuman environment, but not risks to humans, predicted the Chinese's policy support. Results indicate that the media and personal experience have differential effects on risk perceptions and policy support.

Wang, Z. Y. (1997). "Responding to Silent Spring - Scientists, popular science communication, and environmental policy in the Kennedy years." Science Communication 19(2): 141-163.	The history of an important federal report on U.S. pesticide policy shows,low it was influenced by publication of Rachel Carson's Silent Spring and concurrent public and political reaction to the book. The case provides interesting examples of communication among scientists, government policy makers, politicians, federal agencies, and industry.

Ward, S. and K. van Vuuren (2013). "Belonging to the Rainbow Region: Place, Local Media, and the Construction of Civil and Moral Identities Strategic to Climate Change Adaptability." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 7(1): 63-79.	The Rainbow Region in northern New South Wales, Australia, has attracted much attention because of its visibility and meaning as a meeting place' of countercultures and for the articulation of social and environmental ideals that challenge mainstream practice. We argue that the idiosyncrasies of this regionits history, the character of its social networks, the aesthetic and lifestyle attributes of landscape implicit to its evolving place identityhave led to various expressions in eco-cosmopolitanism evident in a thriving local newspaper industry, and film and television production that has reached international acclaim. This case study explores the role of the Rainbow Region's creative class in providing the creative edge in media and cultural production that has the capacity to facilitate social change towards sustainable practices.

Ward, V., et al. (2008). "You & Your Body A Case Study of Bioscience Communication at the University of Leeds." Science Communication 30(2): 177-208.	Universities are beginning to recognize that failing to engage with local communities can result in decreased public confidence, decreased credibility, and the slow uptake and implementation of research. This has led to significant interest in the concept and practices of public engagement, particularly within science. This article presents a case study of a biomedical public engagement project at the University of Leeds, United Kingdom. The authors discuss how the project has highlighted the barriers and facilitators to engaging the adult public with biomedical research and university communities.

Wardman, J. K. (2008). "The Constitution of Risk Communication in Advanced Liberal Societies." Risk Analysis 28(6): 1619-1637.	This article aims to bring to the fore some of the underlying rationales that inform common conceptions of the constitution of risk communication in academic and policy communities. "Normative," "instrumental," and "substantive" imperatives typically employed in the utilization of risk communication are first outlined. In light of these considerations, a theoretical scheme is subsequently devised leading to the articulation of four fundamental "idealized" models of risk communication termed the "risk message" model, the "risk dialogue" model, the "risk field" model, and the "risk government" model, respectively. It is contended that the diverse conceptual foundations underlying the orientation of each model suggest a further need for a more contextualized view of risk communication that takes account not only of the strengths and limitations of different formulations and functions of risk communication, but also the underlying knowledge/power dynamics that underlie its constitution. In particular, it is hoped that the reflexive theoretical understanding presented here will help to bring some much needed conceptual clarity to academic and policy discourses about the use and utility of risk communication in advanced liberal societies.

Wardman, J. K. (2014). "Sociocultural vectors of effective risk communication." Journal of Risk Research 17(10): 1251-1257.	Kasperson's reflections on the state of the art' in risk communication thinking and practice set out an ambitious programmatic vision of how future progress in effective risk communication might be achieved. In this critical but supportive response, I first outline two perspectives on how progress in risk communication might be evaluated. This is followed by some discussion relating these issues to the sociocultural nature of risk communication thinking and practice, and the normative basis of underlying assumptions and ideas of effectiveness. It is suggested that inasmuch as the practical application of effective risk communication requires knowledge of human thinking and behaviour, then further considerations of some sociocultural regularities, contingencies and varieties in risk communication thinking and behaviour within particular contexts should also have practical applications.

Wardman, J. K. and R. Lofstedt (2018). "Anticipating or Accommodating to Public Concern? Risk Amplification and the Politics of Precaution Reexamined." Risk Analysis 38(9): 1802-1819.	Regulatory use of the precautionary principle (PP) tends to be broadly characterized either as a responsible approach for safeguarding against health and environmental risks in the face of scientific uncertainties, or as state mismanagement driven by undue political bias and public anxiety. However, the anticipatory basis upon which governments variably draw a political warrant for adopting precautionary measures often remains ambiguous. Particularly, questions arise concerning whether the PP is employed preemptively by political elites from the top down, or follows from more conventional democratic pressures exerted by citizens and other stakeholders from the bottom up. This article elucidates the role and impact of citizen involvement in the precautionary politics shaping policy discourse surrounding the U.K. government's precautionary approach to mobile telecommunications technology and health. A case study is presented that critically reexamines the basis upon which U.K. government action has been portrayed as an instance of anticipatory policy making. Findings demonstrate that the use of the PP should not be interpreted in the preemptive terms communicated by U.K. government officials alone, but also in relation to the wider social context of risk amplification and images of public concern formed adaptively in antagonistic precautionary discourse between citizens, politicians, industry, and the media, which surrounded cycles of government policy making. The article discusses the sociocultural conditions and political dynamics underpinning public influence on government anticipation and responsiveness exemplified in this case, and concludes with research and policy implications for how society subsequently comes to terms with the emergence and precautionary governance of new technologies under conflict.

Wardman, J. K. and G. Mythen (2016). "Risk communication: against the Gods or against all odds? Problems and prospects of accounting for Black Swans." Journal of Risk Research 19(10): 1220-1230.	Recent academic and policy preoccupations with Black Swans' underscore the predicament of capturing and communicating risk events when information is absent, partial, incomplete or contingent. In this article, we wish to articulate some key thematic and theoretical points of concurrence around which academic and practitioner interests in risk communication under conditions of high uncertainty' intersect. We outline the historical context and recent debate concerning the limits to risk thinking' spurred by Black Swans, and in particular how this calls for a more holistic approach to risk communication. In order to support a more critical foresight agenda, we suggest incorporating adaptive governance' principles to decentre focal risk communication concerns on the mitigation of short-term security threats, which critics argue can also lead to other unforeseen dangers. Finally, we welcome further interdisciplinary inquiry into the constitution and use of risk communication under high uncertainty.

Warira, D., et al. (2017). "Achieving and Sustaining Evidence-Informed Policy Making: Effective Communication and Collaboration Can Go a Long Way." Science Communication 39(3): 382-394.	Increasingly, decision makers are recognizing the value of evidence in formulating sound and sustainable policies. More researchers have also become concerned with ensuring that their evidence reaches policy makers. It is emerging that researchers and policy makers do not speak to each other as much as they should. This commentary shares examples of how population researchers and communications experts have collaborated to overcome the research-to-policy gap and to connect policy makers with research evidence.

Warner, K. D. and F. Kinslow (2013). "Manipulating risk communication: Value predispositions shape public understandings of invasive species science in Hawaii." Public Understanding of Science 22(2): 203-218.	Most invasive species control programs are routine, but a small number prompt public controversy. Local value predispositions shape lay perception of the relative risks of invasive species and efforts to control them. Because control efforts are generally led by government scientists, lay perceptions of invasive species science are colored by public judgment of government credibility. This article examines the proposed release of an insect for biological control of the invasive strawberry guava tree which threatens conservation of Hawaii's forests. A local activist manipulated regulatory risk communication, appealed to local values, and persuaded some local members of the public and elected officials to oppose the insect release. This case illustrates how, in the absence of effective public engagement processes, routine scientific risk communication can be confounded by divergent knowledge taxonomies and perceptions of government hegemony.

Warnock, S. (2005). "The optometrist's rise to power in the health care market, or "it's optometric physician, to you"." Science Communication 27(1): 100-126.	Optometry and ophthalmology have often clashed over scope-of-practice issues. Optometry has won many of these battles and has significantly increased its professional power. While many researchers have analyzed methods of professional empowerment, even in eye care, this study specifically investigates how rhetorical strategies in afield's professional texts might influence that empowerment. Optometry mobilized itself and elevated its professional status in part through a successful rhetorical campaign beginning in the 1960s. A rhetorical analysis of optometric texts from the 1960s and 1970s reveals (1) the regular use of agonistic, martial rhetoric and (2) not only more serious content but also more serious rhetoric, serving to upgrade the field's scientific credibility. Through this rhetorical strategy, viewed through Burke's ideas about rhetoric's role in identity and division, optometrists constructed an image of medicine as an antagonistic other and used it to unify their members and convince politicians, health providers, and the public that they were qualified for heightened professional responsibilities.

Washer, P. (2007). "Risk and society." Public Understanding of Science 16(1): 111-112.
	
Washer, P. (2011). "Lay perceptions of emerging infectious diseases: a commentary." Public Understanding of Science 20(4): 506-512.
	
Watermeyer, R. (2012). "Measuring the Impact Values of Public Engagement in Medical Contexts." Science Communication 34(6): 752-775.	This article considers the impact values attributed to public engagement with science and technology (PEST) as articulated by a cohort of U.K.-based medical researchers (n = 84) within a partially open-ended survey. Two discrete yet interlinking impact categories emerge-impact of PEST on researchers and the research process and impact of PEST on the public image and reputation of research/researchers. These accounts reveal a limited sentiment among medical researchers for PEST envisaged as "upstream" and leading to public/patient collaboration and suggest that PEST is encouraged more frequently in the promotion and defense of medical science within the public sphere.

Weathers, M. R. and B. E. Kendall (2016). "Developments in the Framing of Climate Change as a Public Health Issue in US Newspapers." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 10(5): 593-611.	News media are major channels for the transmission of information to the public and deliver news about the latest developments regarding health issues such as climate change. How the media frame such information may enhance public understanding and enable appropriate responses by individuals and communities. This study follows up on previous research examining media portrayals of climate change in US newspapers from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2008. Here, we content analyze 270 news stories on climate change as a public health issue from five US newspapers between 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2012. Findings indicate that the total number of articles about climate change declined while emphasis on the public health dimension of climate change increased. The types of generic news frames (i.e., dramatic/substantive) most frequently used did not considerably change across the two time periods, however. To explain this, we discuss ways in which people may assess and spark change in news framing of public issues to better reach and influence a range of audiences.

Weaver, D. A., et al. (2009). "Searching for a Frame News Media Tell the Story of Technological Progress, Risk, and Regulation." Science Communication 31(2): 139-166.	How are the news media framing nanoscale science and technology? Primary concerns in the literature have been how news media weigh risks and benefits and how they classify nano with respect to news categories such as business, culture, discovery, or medicine. The authors contribute a new perspective by focusing on issue frames involving how stories imply responsibility for societal outcomes from technology. The authors develop four issue frames for stories about nanoscale science and technology: progress, regulation, conflict, and generic risk. These cut across the frame classifications and story (one assessments employed previously in the literature. Using data from the 10 largest U.S. newspapers for 1999-2008, the frequency of each frame over time is assessed. This study found that progress and generic risk frames, which deemphasize actors and responsibilities, dominated early coverage of nano but that frames involving regulation and the interplay of market incentives and regulatory responsibility mainly supplanted progress frames by 2007.

Webb, M. and K. R. Ronan (2014). "Interactive Hazards Education Program for Youth in a Low SES Community: A Quasi-Experimental Pilot Study." Risk Analysis 34(10): 1882-1893.	A pilot study of an interactive hazards education program was carried out in Canberra (Australia), with direct input from youth participants. Effects were evaluated in relation to youths' interest in disasters, motivation to prepare, risk awareness, knowledge indicators, perceived preparedness levels, planning and practice for emergencies, and fear and anxiety indicators. Parents also provided ratings, including of actual home-based preparedness activities. Using a single group pretest-posttest with benchmarking design, a sample of 20 youths and their parents from a low SES community participated. Findings indicated beneficial changes on a number of indicators. Preparedness indicators increased significantly from pre- to posttest on both youth (p < 0.01) and parent ratings (p < 0.01). Parent ratings reflected an increase of just under six home-based preparedness activities. Youth knowledge about disaster mitigation also was seen to increase significantly (p < 0.001), increasing 39% from pretest levels. While personalized risk perceptions significantly increased (p < 0.01), anxiety and worry levels were seen either not to change (generalized anxiety, p > 0.05) or to reduce between pre- and posttest (hazards-specific fears, worry, and distress, ps ranged from p < 0.05 to < 0.001). In terms of predictors of preparedness, a number of variables were found to predict posttest preparedness levels, including information searching done by participants between education sessions. These pilot findings are the first to reflect quasi-experimental outcomes for a youth hazards education program carried out in a setting other than a school that focused on a sample of youth from a low SES community.

Weber, M. A. and T. E. Backer (2013). "Science-Based Communication Strategy for a Federal Health Agency." Science Communication 35(5): 667-677.	Over 6 years, a U.S. Federal health agency, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, has developed a science-based communications strategy. Agency staff reviewed the scientific literature, discussed implications of it for meeting communications goals of the agency, created a strategy based on what was learned, and refined it over time as informed by experience. Doing so led to eight significant changes in ongoing operations of the agency's Office of Communications. Discussion of these activities is followed by an analysis of possible next steps this agency or others like it could take to enhance communications strategy.

Weber, R., et al. (2016). "Americans' Support for NASA's James Webb Space Telescope: Effects of Traditional Texts Compared to Interactive Media." Science Communication 38(5): 601-625.	This study tested responses to traditional or interactive material about NASA's James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) project. A total of 660 participants were divided into three groups: a science guide group that viewed an online PDF, an interactive group that viewed a YouTube video and FlyBy simulation, and a control group that received no supporting texts about JWST. Interactive media outperformed traditional texts in increasing levels of support for JWST construction. However, the traditional text and interactive media showed no difference in other measures of support for JWST construction. No texts increased support for NASA funding or prompted participant advocacy.

Webler, T., et al. (1995). "Eliciting and Classifying Concerns - a Methodological Critique." Risk Analysis 15(3): 421-436.	Two methodological steps in the study of peoples' concerns are elicitation and classification.  Elicitation of concerns through analytical methods such as surveys can be supplemented with techniques that perform more diversively.  We present two examples of how this can be accomplished:  one in the expert community and one in the lay community.  A classification taxonomy is a subjective choice of the researcher and it can only be evaluated against the stated objectives of the research.  We present a classification schema that is explicity oriented toward diagnosing the substantive needs of public discourses about risk decision making.  To illustrate how concerns can be elicited in a social setting and how this classification tool can be applied, we report on a public participation exercise in New Jersey where citizens discussed the impacts of land application of sewage sludge at an experimental farm.

Weigold, M. F. (2001). "Communicating science - A review of the literature." Science Communication 23(2): 164-193.	This article provides an overview of science communication, which is a vital area of mass communication scholarship. The review is organized around the key players, including news organizations, reporters, science information professionals, scientists, and audiences. Also reviewed is the problem of science communication, which may be partly responsible for widespread science illiteracy. Ways of improving the practice of science communication and an agenda for future research are offered.

Weigold, M. F. and D. Treise (2004). "Attracting teen surfers to science Web sites." Public Understanding of Science 13(3): 229-248.	Attracting teens to science Web sites can be difficult because teens spend less time online than other groups and because teens most frequently use the Internet for social and entertainment gratifications. Two studies sought to increase understanding about how to attract teens to science Web sites. The first study was a content analysis of state-of-the-art science Web sites and popular non-science teen Web sites. The second study used teen focus groups to gain insights about their Internet use and about how they use the Web to find science information. Implications from both studies for improving Web-mediated science communication to a teenage audience are discussed.

Weil, V. (1998). "The information revolution - A dose of reality." Science Communication 20(1): 136-141.	Better data about the working conditions and actual practices of users can assist understanding of the capacity of electronic networking and computer technologies. The author points to information presented at two symposia as evidence of the ripeness and relevance of these issues, the complexity of social science research on them, and the fallacies of many popular assumptions about how networks are used.

Weingart, P. (1998). "Science and the media." Research Policy 27(8): 869-879.	The traditional view of the popularization of science, if it was ever correct, is being challenged in the new arrangement between science and the media. The paper discusses the changes in that arrangement and gives three particular cases of what is termed an increasingly closer science–media-coupling: pre-publication of results in the media, the role of media prominence in relation to scientific reputation, and the cassandra syndrome in some areas of research, i.e., the initiation of catastrophe discourses in order to catch public attention. The coupling with its problematic consequences seems inescapable given the increased dependency on public support on the part of science, and the media's enhanced role in providing legitimation.

Weingart, P., et al. (2000). "Risks of communication: discourses on climate change in science, politics, and the mass media." Public Understanding of Science 9(3): 261-283.	This paper summarizes the results of a research project analyzing communication about global warming among those in the fields of science, politics, and the media in Germany between 1975 and 1995. The methodology of discourse analysis has been applied to investigate the changing perceptions of climate change over time and the ways in which it became an important issue on Germany's political agenda. The first part of the paper will briefly introduce the underlying theoretical assumptions and explain the multiple steps by which data covering a period of two decades have been collected and analyzed. In the second part, the paper will provide the reader with the main research results, indicating the usefulness of distinguishing among the separate discourses on climate change in science, politics, and the mass media. The results suggest that there are specific discourse dynamics common to each of the three spheres, as well as some important disparities among them. These findings will be illustrated by a selection of examples typical of the samples analyzed. Finally, the third part of the paper will discuss the broader theoretical and practical implications of these results, which suggest that modem societies must cope not only with environmental risks but also with the risks inherent in communication.

Weingart, P., et al. (2003). "Of power maniacs and unethical geniuses: science and scientists in fiction film." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 279-287.	New knowledge has met with ambivalence, as is documented in myths ever since that of Prometheus. This ambivalence is also apparent in the representations of science in literature and the popular media, most prominent among them movies. Shelley's Frankenstein has become the icon of the "mad scientist" as depicted by filmmakers ever since the 1930s. To trace such patterns of ambivalence and stereotypes of scientists and science in fiction film, 222 movies were analyzed. It is apparent that modification of, and intervention into, the human body, the violation of human nature, and threats to human health by means of science are depicted as the most alarming aspects of scientific inquiry. The threat is dramatized by being associated with the image of the scientist as pursuing the quest for new knowledge in secrecy, outside the controls of academic institutions and peers. Scientific research as perceived by fiction film is seldom a venture across the boundaries of the permissible.

Weingart, P. and P. Pansegrau (1999). "Reputation in science and prominence in the media: the Goldhagen debate." Public Understanding of Science 8(1): 3-16.	This paper argues that in media reporting on science, media prominence competes with scientific reputation. That is, in certain cases the media compete with science, both in terms of knowledge claims and in terms of the internal mechanisms of self-direction. This implies that in cases where scientific and media evaluations diverge, the media's control over public attention opens the possibility that priority-setting and evaluation within science are no longer the exclusive orientation criteria for the public's willingness to grant financial support. Taking Luhmann's theory of functional differentiation as a starting point in conjunction with "news-value-theory," the argument assumes that the media have different criteria than the sciences for selecting scientists and their topics as worthy of reporting (and attributing prominence), an area where the sciences have internal processes of attributing reputation on the basis of excellence in research. The case investigated is the reception of Daniel Goldhagen's book Hitler's Willing Executioners in the German print media over a period of about ten months in 1996-1997. The case demonstrates how media evaluation differed markedly from the judgment by the historical community and provided Goldhagen with a tremendous public prominence.

Weingart, P. and P. Pansegrau (2003). "Introduction: perception and representation of science in literature and fiction film." Public Understanding of Science 12(3): 227-228.
	
Weingart, P., et al. (2008). "The social embedding of biomedicine: an analysis of German media debates 1995-2004." Public Understanding of Science 17(3): 381-396.	Biomedical research and technologies such as cloning, stem cell research, and the deciphering of the human genome have met with opposition-albeit of different intensity-motivated by ethical values. The debates over the continuation of research and the implementation of the respective technologies are being staged in the mass media. The media have assumed the function of "embedding" controversial knowledge and technologies into society by using public discourse. The hypothesis is that these discourses follow a common pattern revealing the process of "embedding," and ultimately leading to a change of existing values. In this study, three debates over cloning, stem cell research and the Human Genome Project are analyzed in ten German daily and weekly newspapers over the period 1995-2004. It is shown that the patterns of reporting are more complex than anticipated. Rather than being identical for all technologies, they reveal different courses depending on the kind of knowledge/ technology and value sensitivity.

Weinstein, N. D., et al. (1996). "Using time intervals between expected events to communicate risk magnitudes." Risk Analysis 16(3): 305-308.	Because members of the public have difficulty understanding risk presented in terms of odds ratios (e.g., 1 in 1000) and in comparing odds ratios from different hazards, we examined the use of time intervals between expected harmful events to communicate risk. Perceptions of the risk from a hypothetical instance of naturally-occurring, cancer-causing arsenic in drinking water supplies was examined with a sample of 705 homeowners. The risk was described as either 1 in 1000 or 1 in 100,000 and as present in a town of 2000 people or a city of 200,000 people. With these parameters, the time intervals ranged from 1 expected death in 3500 years (1 in 100,000 risk, small town) to 1 death every 4 months (1 in 1000 risk, city). The addition of time intervals to the odds ratios significantly decreased perceived threat and perceived need for action in the small town but did not affect response for the city. These framing effects were nearly as large as a 100-fold difference in actual risk. Instances when this communication approach may be useful are discussed.

Weinstein, N. D. and P. M. Sandman (1993). "Some Criteria for Evaluating Risk Messages." Risk Analysis 13(1): 103-114.	Seven criteria are presented for use in evaluating communications designed to explain the magnitude of a risk. The criteria are: (1) comprehension (Does the audience understand the content of the communication?); (2) agreement (Does the audience agree with the recommendation or interpretation contained in the message?); (3) dose-response consistency (Do people facing a higher dose of a hazard perceive the risk as greater and/or show a greater readiness to take action than people exposed to a lower dose of this hazard?); (4) hazard-response consistency (Do people facing a hazard that is higher in risk perceive the risk as greater and/or show a greater readiness to take action than people exposed to a hazard that is lower in risk?); (5) uniformity (Do audience members exposed to the same level of risk tend to have the same responses to this risk?); (6) audience evaluation (Does the audience judge the message to have been helpful, accurate, clear, etc.?); and (7) types of communication failures (When different types of failures are possible, are the failures that occur generally of the more acceptable variety?). Each of these criteria is illustrated with data collected in a test of message formats designed to explain the risk presented by radon gas in a home.

Weiss, M. (2005). "Risk, communication and health psychology." Risk Analysis 25(4): 1079-1080.
	
Welbourne, D. J. and W. J. Grant (2016). "Science communication on YouTube: Factors that affect channel and video popularity." Public Understanding of Science 25(6): 706-718.	YouTube has become one of the largest websites on the Internet. Among its many genres, both professional and amateur science communicators compete for audience attention. This article provides the first overview of science communication on YouTube and examines content factors that affect the popularity of science communication videos on the site. A content analysis of 390 videos from 39 YouTube channels was conducted. Although professionally generated content is superior in number, user-generated content was significantly more popular. Furthermore, videos that had consistent science communicators were more popular than those without a regular communicator. This study represents an important first step to understand content factors, which increases the channel and video popularity of science communication on YouTube.

Welles, B. F. and I. Meirelles (2015). "Visualizing Computational Social Science: The Multiple Lives of a Complex Image." Science Communication 37(1): 34-58.	Parallel advances in communication and visualization technologies have enabled the study and visualization of human behavior at a scale and level of detail never before possible. Nowhere are these advances more evident than within the emerging field of computational social science. Using Adamic and Glance's image of the political blogosphere as an example and social representations theory as a guiding framework, we explore how computational social science visualizations may aid and complicate public understanding of this new science. We conclude with a discussion of best practices for the production and reuse of computational social science images for public consumption.

Wells, J. (2014). "Ambient rhetoric: The attunements of rhetorical being." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(3): 406-408.
	
West, K. M., et al. (2013). "Found in translation: Decoding local understandings of genetics and heredity in a Yup'ik Eskimo community." Public Understanding of Science 22(1): 80-90.	The Center for Alaska Native Health Research is a community-based participatory research center that conducts studies involving genetic research with Yup'ik Eskimo community members in Southwest Alaska, where Yup'ik remains the first language for most residents. Cultural equivalents are needed to communicate results of these studies among all partners and members of the participating communities, since many scientific terms have no direct translation in Yup'ik. To inform that effort, we examined local understandings of genetics and heredity in one community. Here, we report results from back-translated Yup'ik interviews, and identify working genetic concepts shared by participants from interviews and focus groups. We suggest issues involved in, and some potential steps toward, developing a concise, scientifically accurate and culturally relevant term for "genetics" and other health concepts.

Westberg, L., et al. (2010). "Communicative Skills Development of Administrators: A Necessary Step for Implementing Participatory Policies in Natural Resource Management." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(2): 225-236.	In 2007, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) asked the authors to design and run a program for communicative skills development of Natural Resource Management (NRM) administrators and managers at SEPA and county administrative boards. This essay is based on our experiences with and reflections on the program. We first discuss basic assumptions about the situation of the administrators and their need for communicative skills development. Second, we provide a brief description of program implementation. Finally, we use our experiences to explore implications for a wider context of NRM. We conclude that initiating and supporting bottom-up processes within top-down structures is a delicate task that demands continuous training. Establishing professional learning teams at the administrators' places of work can facilitate continuous reflection and communicative competence development.

Wester-Herber, M. and L. E. Warg (2004). "Did they get it? Examining the goals of risk communication within the Seveso II Directive in a Swedish context." Journal of Risk Research 7(5): 495-506.	In this article, the success of a risk communication programme conducted in two municipalities in Sweden is evaluated. The communication efforts were initiated in order to comply with the Seveso II Directive, passed as a national law in July 1999. Data from two different questionnaires are used. Between the distribution of the two questionnaires, an information campaign took place in the communities. The first questionnaire was aimed at measuring the public's opinion and understanding of the risks related to chemical industries in their communities, as well as the public's knowledge of emergency behaviour in the event of an accident. The second was aimed at measuring the effects or impact of the risk communication programme on the public. A total of 346 respondents participated in the study by answering two questionnaires. An evaluation of the risk communication efforts was focused around three dimensions: comprehension, audience evaluation and communication failures. The results showed differences between the two campaigns that gave significantly different results in the two communities. In the community with the multimedia channel campaign, the respondents showed greater knowledge of the production process at the local industry, they also judged the health threats for that industry to be less after the campaign, and they saved the information material to a greater extent. However, the overall effects of the information campaigns were weak. Future research is needed to explore the relation between people's emergency behaviour and risk communication.

Weyma, A. (2003). "Risk communication - A mental models approach." Journal of Risk Research 6(1): 93-94.
	
Weyman, A. K., et al. (2006). "Exploring comparative ratings and constituent facets of public trust in risk regulatory bodies and related stakeholder groups." Journal of Risk Research 9(6): 605-622.	This paper reports on two comparative ranking tasks performed by a sample of the British citizens (N=304). The first was designed to compare levels of relative trust vested in a sample of UK risk regulatory bodies and associated stakeholder groups. The second sought to elicit a ranking of a range of previously identified facets of social trust referenced to their desirability as attributes of a government funded risk regulatory body. The ranking tasks were embedded within a broader programme of research focused on "Evaluating public understandings of and trust in the Health and Safety Executive" (Pidgeon et al., 2003). It is argued that deriving rankings of multi-faceted phenomena using the method of paired comparisons offers a more robust approach to rating social trust entities than the direct ranking techniques used in previous studies in this area. Results are discussed with reference to qualitative findings from the broader programme of work on public trust in HSE (Pidgeon et al., 2003) and the wider literature on public trust in risk regulation.

White, C. M., et al. (2015). "Adolescents' and Young Adults' Online Risk Taking: The Role of Gist and Verbatim Representations." Risk Analysis 35(8): 1407-1422.	Young people are exposed to and engage in online risky activities, such as disclosing personal information and making unknown friends online. Little research has examined the psychological mechanisms underlying young people's online risk taking. Drawing on fuzzy trace theory, we examined developmental differences in adolescents' and young adults' online risk taking and assessed whether differential reliance on gist representations (based on vague, intuitive knowledge) or verbatim representations (based on specific, factual knowledge) could explain online risk taking. One hundred and twenty two adolescents (ages 13-17) and 172 young adults (ages 18-24) were asked about their past online risk-taking behavior, intentions to engage in future risky online behavior, and gist and verbatim representations. Adolescents had significantly higher intentions to take online risks than young adults. Past risky online behaviors were positively associated with future intentions to take online risks for adolescents and negatively for young adults. Gist representations about risk negatively correlated with intentions to take risks online in both age groups, while verbatim representations positively correlated with online risk intentions, particularly among adolescents. Our results provide novel insights about the underlying mechanisms involved in adolescent and young adults' online risk taking, suggesting the need to tailor the representation of online risk information to different age groups.

White, M. P. and B. B. Johnson (2010). "The Intuitive Detection Theorist (IDT) Model of Trust in Hazard Managers." Risk Analysis 30(8): 1196-1209.	The intuitive detection theorist (IDT) model of trust posits that trust in hazard managers stems from judgments about their performance on three criteria: their ability to discriminate safe from dangerous situations (discrimination ability); their tendency under uncertainty to assume danger is present (response bias); and their propensity to be open and honest with the public about events (communication bias). The current article tests the model's robustness using findings from three experiments and four surveys conducted by two different research teams. Study-specific analyses and an overall analysis of the seven studies combined confirm that all three of the IDT model's dimensions are important for trust, explaining on average 43% of trust variance. These effects occurred largely independently of hazard topic, research method, or investigator. Hypothesized interaction effects among the dimensions, based upon earlier studies, were weak and contradictory; this is the first known study of interactions among trust model variables.

White, R. K. (1988). "Risk Communication - Davies,Jc, Covello,Vt, Allen,Fw." Risk Analysis 8(3): 470-470.
	
White, R. K., et al. (1995). "The Great Earthquake Experiment - Risk Communication and Public Action - Mileti,Ds, Fitzpatrick,C." Risk Analysis 15(1): 102-103.
	
Whitmarsh, L. (2009). "What's in a name? Commonalities and differences in public understanding of "climate change" and "global warming"." Public Understanding of Science 18(4): 401-420.	This paper reports on findings from a survey of public understanding of climate change and global warming amongst residents in the south of England. Whereas much previous research has relied on survey checklists to measure public understanding of climate change, this study employed a more qualitative approach to reveal participants' unprompted conceptions of climate change and global warming, Overall, the findings show a tendency for the public to dissociate themselves from the causes, impacts, and responsibility for tackling climate change/global warming. This research gave particular attention to how terminology is understood by the public. The findings point to important qualitative, as well as quantitative, differences between public understanding of "climate change" and public understanding of "global warming." Furthermore, the latter term was found to evoke more concern than the former. As discussed in the article, these results have important implications for both researchers and communicators.

Whitney, D. J., et al. (2004). "Earthquake beliefs and adoption of seismic hazard adjustments." Risk Analysis 24(1): 87-102.	This study investigated the prevalence of both accurate and erroneous earthquake-related beliefs among a sample of Southern California college students and the relationship between their endorsement of earthquake beliefs and adoption of seismic hazard adjustments. In addition, the study examined the effects of an experimental earthquake education program and the impact of need for cognition on this program. The data revealed a significant degree of agreement with earthquake myths, a generally low level of correlation between earthquake beliefs and the level of hazard adjustments, and a significant effect of hazard information on the endorsement of accurate earthquake beliefs and increases in hazard adjustment. Compared with the "Earthquake Facts (Only)" format, an "Earthquake Myths versus Facts" format was slightly more useful for dispelling erroneous beliefs. Further, there was a tendency for those who were high in need for cognition to have higher levels of hazard adjustment. Finally, there was weak support for the hypothesis that those who were low in need for cognition would develop more accurate earthquake beliefs and higher levels of hazard adjustment in the "Earthquake Myths versus Facts" information condition.

Whitten, P. and B. Collins (1997). "The diffusion of telemedicine - Communicating an innovation." Science Communication 19(1): 21-40.	Telemedicine, the use of telecommunication technologies in the delivery of health services, has literally burst upon the health care scene during this decade. However no study to date has attempted anything further than a cursory examination of the diffusion of this innovation. This article argues that a linear approach is inadequate to understand the diffusion of decentralized and continually reinvented innovations such as telemedicine. Instead, a communicative focus which privileges the role of participatory conversation is used to examine and explain the invention, diffusion, and reinvention of telemedicine.

Wibeck, V. (2014). "Social representations of climate change in Swedish lay focus groups: Local or distant, gradual or catastrophic?" Public Understanding of Science 23(2): 204-219.	This paper explores social representations of climate change, investigating how climate change is discussed by Swedish laypeople interacting in focus group interviews. The analysis focuses on prototypical examples and metaphors, which were key devices for objectifying climate change representations. The paper analyzes how the interaction of focus group participants with other speakers, ideas, arguments, and broader social representations shaped their representations of climate change. Climate change was understood as a global but distant issue with severe consequences. There was a dynamic tension between representations of climate change as a gradual vs. unpredictable process. Implications for climate change communication are discussed.

Wickman, C. (2014). "Rhetorical Framing in Corporate Press Releases: The Case of British Petroleum and the Gulf Oil Spill." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(1): 3-20.	This article examines how British Petroleum (BP) used conventional features of the press release genre to characterize its involvement in the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Findings suggest that press releases served two related functions: individually, they highlighted the company's public attempts to stabilize a dynamic situation and take responsibility for seemingly positive developments in the coastal region; and together, they contribute to an evolving narrative through which BP attempted to craft its image as an innovative corporation, conscientious environmental agent, and generous benefactor to those affected by the spill. The author argues that the features of the press release genre contribute to strategic rhetorical framing and thus offer important insights into the ways in which organizations position themselves in relation to environmental crises.

Widmalm, S. (2018). "The Nobel science prizes and their constituencies." Public Understanding of Science 27(4): 397-404.
	
Wiedemann, P., et al. (2011). "Evidence Maps: Communicating Risk Assessments in Societal Controversies: The Case of Engineered Nanoparticles." Risk Analysis 31(11): 1770-1783.	The transparent and fair characterization of scientific evidence for reporting the results of a hazard assessment is a demanding task. In this article, we present an approach for characterizing evidence-the evidence map approach. The theoretical starting point is to view evidence characterization as a form of argumentation. Thus, evidence maps are designed to depict the evidence base, the pro and con arguments, and the remaining uncertainties, which together lead experts to their conclusions when summarizing and evaluating the scientific evidence about a potential hazard. To illustrate its use, the evidence maps approach is applied to characterizing the health-relevant effects of engineered nanoparticles. Empirical data from an online survey suggests that the use of evidence maps improves the reporting of hazard assessments. Nonexperts prefer to receive the information included in an evidence map in order to come to an informed judgment. Furthermore, the benefits and limitations of evidence maps are discussed in the light of recent literature on risk communication. Finally, the article underlines the need for further research in order to increase quality of evidence reporting.

Wiedemann, P. M., et al. (2018). "How far is how far enough? Safety perception and acceptance of extra-high-voltage power lines in Germany." Journal of Risk Research 21(4): 463-479.	The results of a 2x2 factorial online experiment are reported. The first factor refers to the information on precautionary measures and the second factor on the information regarding the share of EMF exposure from extra-high-voltage power lines compared to overall EMF exposure measured in-house. The study is based on a community sample of 440 subjects. Information on the share of EMF exposure from extra-high-voltage power lines at the in-house overall EMF exposure has no statistically significant effect of safety distances and acceptance distances. Further findings indicate that communications of precautionary measures produce a countervailing effect: on average, subjects require a higher distance from their homes compared to those who were not informed about precautionary measures. However, there is also a positive effect of precautionary information on the acceptance belief. Subjects who received this information are, in average, less negative about the claim that compliance with the value limit is sufficient in order to agree with the construction of a power line. Possible explanations of the findings such as cognitive dissonance, negativity bias, and style of information processing are discussed.

Wiedemann, P. M., et al. (1991). "Information Needs Concerning a Planned Waste Incineration Facility." Risk Analysis 11(2): 229-237.	Waste management has become a major environmental issue in Germany.  The siting of waste incineration especially arouses strong local opposition.  The study presented here is related to such a case (i.e., a planned waste incineration facility in a small West German village).  The study is based on a telephone survey aimed at the information needs of the residents.  Two topics are stressed:  (1) the thematic relevance of the siting project as seen by the public; and (2) the residents' information needs.  The results show that a majority of residents are concerned about the planned facility, and the most important topics of their information needs refer to the risks and the safety systems of the planned facility, as well as information about waste management alternatives.  Furthermore, the information needs depend on the personal relevance of the issue and the perceived knowledge deficit about it.  Conclusions are drawn with regard to the design of a risk communication program.  Here, four groups of residents are distinguished in terms of knowledge and motivation and, thus, need to be approached in different ways.

Wiedemann, P. M., et al. (2006). "The impacts of precautionary measures and the disclosure of scientific uncertainty on EMF risk perception and trust." Journal of Risk Research 9(4): 361-372.	This study evaluates the impact on risk perception and trust in public health protection resulting from disclosure of information about implementation of precautionary measures and from the disclosure of scientific uncertainty in the area of mobile telephony. Based on an experimental design, the study supports our recent findings (Wiedemann and Schiltz, 2005) that precautionary measures may trigger concerns and amplify EMF-related risk perceptions. Furthermore, our present data once again indicates that information about the implementation of precautionary measures has no positive effect on trust in public health protection. These results, contrary to common expectations, should be considered in decisions about precautionary measures. Risk managers who intend to implement precautionary measures merely as a means for reassuring the public will probably fail. Indeed, even if precautionary measures are justified from a public health perspective, it seems prudent to anticipate the possibly countervailing effects of such measures on the public. This leads to two important challenges for risk communication, first to clarify the difference between hazard and risk and, second, to help avoid such unwanted effects by designing better communication about precautionary measures.

Wilke, A. K. and L. W. Morton (2015). "Climatologists' Communication of Climate Science to the Agricultural Sector." Science Communication 37(3): 371-395.	Farming is a risky business. Climate science information can assist agriculture in formulating management decisions that hedge against uncertainty and risks. Climatologists are key actors in communicating historical trends and forecast information. Interviews and surveys of climatologists in the North Central Region reveal that they are providing accurate and objective information but are likely to let the science speak for itself. This suggests missed opportunities to communicate climate science in ways that make science relevant to decision maker beliefs, values, and practical applications. Furthermore, more active engagement with agriculture could increase colearning necessary for effective adaptive management under increasingly variable climate conditions.

Wilkins, L. (2003). "The rhetoric of risk: Technical documentation in hazardous environments." Public Understanding of Science 12(4): 443-444.
	
Wilkins, L. (2005). "The first idea: How symbols, language, and intelligence evolved from our primate ancestors to modern humans." Science Communication 27(1): 150-152.
	
Wilkins, L. (2007). "Genomics and society: Legal, ethical and social dimensions." Science Communication 28(4): 524-526.
	
Wilkinson, C., et al. (2011). ""Oh Yes, Robots! People Like Robots; the Robot People Should do Something": Perspectives and Prospects in Public Engagement With Robotics." Science Communication 33(3): 367-397.	Governmental and institutional policy making in a number of countries has embedded public engagement strategies as a primary channel to connect citizens with scientific and technological innovation. Robotics is emerging as a key site for such new technological activity and its applications are likely to be increasingly notable in our lives in coming years. Robotics researchers are investing considerable time and effort in "engaging" publics. Concentrating on the findings of 24 qualitative interviews with those actively organizing or engaging publics, across 11 public engagement activities focused on the robotics field within the United Kingdom, this article explores their conceptions of "public engagement" and its benefits and constraints. The results suggest that while the language of engagement has been embraced there remain practical, conceptual, and individual influences on the level of engagement which is experienced.

Wilkinson, I. (2010). "Grasping the point of unfathomable complexity: the new media research and risk analysis." Journal of Risk Research 13(1): 19-28.	This paper provides a critical review of engagements between the sociology of mass media and risk research. Attention is focused upon the ways in which sociologists and experts in media/communication studies have worked to bring a more socially dynamic and culturally nuanced account of the ways in which people interpret and respond to the content of news media within the field of risk analysis. I argue that, if taken seriously, this endeavour serves more to frustrate than advance the aims and objectives of risk communication. This leads me to question the role played by sociology in the context of risk analysis and to the critical suggestion that sociological reflexivity is bound to disrupt the domain assumptions and pervading ethos of this field.

Willard, B. E. (2007). "Rhetorical Landscapes as Epistemic: Revisiting Aldo Leopold's A Sand County Almanac." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 1(2): 218-235.	This essay examines the rhetorical impetus toward environmental human agency in Aldo Leopold's A Sand County Almanac (SCA). In identifying a foundation for this agency, Leopold relies on the epistemological function of rhetoric in an effort to bring to light the epistemic potential in reading the landscape. In this fashion, Leopold offers a way of knowing the environment through natural observations. The author identifies the unfolding epistemological revelations found in the three primary sections of SCA. Leopold describes these epistemological revelations gleaned from reading the landscape as "shifts.'' The first shift, in Part I of SCA, offers the audience lessons through Leopold's own example in reading the text of the landscape. The second shift, described in Part II, describes his epistemological revelations acquired through his reading of the landscape. The final section of the book situates these epistemological revelations in one of the most influential concepts found in environmental ethics, the land ethic. Through these three iterations, Leopold not only instructs his readers in the rhetorical possibilities found in reading landscapes but also offers scholars of environmental rhetoric a unique understanding of analyzing landscapes as epistemological rhetoric.

Willard, B. E. (2008). "Special Issue: Communication at the Nexus of Nature and Culture." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(2): 129-132.
	
Willems, J. (2001). "Science writing courses identify journalists among students." Public Understanding of Science 10(3): 297-306.	Dutch universities offer 18 courses in journalistic (science) writing or science journalism, attracting hundreds of students every year. These courses differ in size, theoretical content, study load and admission requirements, but they all breed satisfied participants who have written some good journalistic articles as a part of those courses, that are or could have been published in newspapers or magazines. For this reason it is difficult to conclude what is the best way of teaching journalistic writing at universities. Probably these courses in the first place provide a way to identify (and certify) science writers/science journalists among the participants.

Williams, L., et al. (2017). "Framing "fracking': Exploring public perceptions of hydraulic fracturing in the United Kingdom." Public Understanding of Science 26(1): 89-104.	The prospect of fracking in the United Kingdom has been accompanied by significant public unease. We outline how the policy debate is being framed by UK institutional actors, finding evidence of a dominant discourse in which the policy approach is defined through a deficit model of public understanding of science and in which a technical approach to feasibility and safety is deemed as sufficient grounds for good policymaking. Deploying a deliberative focus group methodology with lay publics across different sites in the north of England, we find that these institutional framings are poorly aligned with participants' responses. We find that unease regularly overflows the focus on safety and feasibility and cannot be satisfactorily explained by a lack of understanding on the part of participants. We find that scholarship from science and technology studies productively elucidates our participants' largely sceptical positions, and orientates strategies for responding to them more effectively.

Williams, P. R. D. and J. K. Hammitt (2001). "Perceived risks of conventional and organic produce: Pesticides, pathogens, and natural toxins." Risk Analysis 21(2): 319-330.	Public risk perceptions and demand for safer food are important factors shaping agricultural production practices in the United States. Despite documented food safety concerns, little attempt has been made to elicit consumers' subjective risk judgments for a range of food safety hazards or to identify factors most predictive of perceived food safety risks. In this study, over 700 conventional and organic fresh produce buyers in the Boston area were surveyed for their perceived food safety risks. Survey results showed that consumers perceived relatively high risks associated with the consumption and production of conventionally grown produce compared with other public health hazards. For example, conventional and organic food buyers estimated the median annual fatality rate due to pesticide residues on conventionally grown food to be about 50 per million and 200 per million, respectively, which is similar in magnitude to the annual mortality risk from motor vehicle accidents in the United States. Over 90% of survey respondents also perceived a reduction in pesticide residue risk associated with substituting organically grown produce for conventionally grown produce, and nearly 50% perceived a risk reduction due to natural toxins and microbial pathogens. Multiple regression analyses indicate that only a few factors are consistently predictive of higher risk perceptions, including feelings of distrust toward regulatory agencies and the safety of the food supply. A variety of factors were found to be significant predictors of specific categories of food hazards, suggesting that consumers may view food safety risks as dissimilar from one another. Based on study findings, it is recommended that future agricultural policies and risk communication efforts utilize a comparative risk approach that targets a range of food safety hazards.

Williams, S. N. (2010). "A twenty-first century Citizens' POLIS: introducing a democratic experiment in electronic citizen participation in science and technology decision-making." Public Understanding of Science 19(5): 528-544.	Related to ongoing debates concerning the future of "deliberative democracy" and "public sociology," this article introduces a new approach to citizen participation in science and technology decision-making. The Citizens' POLIS ( Participatory On-Line Interactive System) is a multi-method, multi-stage, semi-structured, electronic public participation process. This pragmatic experiment is influenced by the philosophy of John Dewey and James Bohman, and sees the citizen as the primary democratic inquirer and the social scientist as the key organizer and creator of the " institutional space for deliberation." This article discusses the role of the social scientist in organizing an electronic participation experiment, one which seeks to reach a compromise between democratic legitimacy and political effectiveness. A recently completed pilot study on " Mobile Phones, Risk and Health" is used to illustrate the approach. In conclusion, the need for further empirical experimentation with this, and other processes for electronic citizen participation, is asserted.

Williams, S. N. (2010). "Democratizing Technology: Risk, Responsibility and the Regulation of Chemicals." Public Understanding of Science 19(3): 383-384.
	
Willoughby, J. F. and H. Smith (2016). "Communication Strategies and New Media Platforms: Exploring the Synergistic Potential of Health and Environmental Communication." Science Communication 38(4): 535-545.	Environmental communication and health communication are often intertwined. The complex connections between health and environmental issues can be seen in groundwater pollution, natural resource extraction disasters, and myriad others. While these academic areas are often interconnected, strategies that attempt to influence attitudes and behaviors in one area are not often conveyed to the other. This commentary explores the synergistic potential of health and environmental communication by examining two new media strategies previously applied in health communicationthe use of video games and the use of mobile devices for behavior changeand providing examples on how these strategies may be applied to environmental communication.

Wilson, K. (2007). "The winds of change: Climate, weather and the destruction of civilizations." Science Communication 28(3): 418-420.
	
Wilson, K. (2008). "Television weathercasters as science communicators." Public Understanding of Science 17(1): 73-87.	An important, but mostly overlooked aspect of science communication is the potential role US television weathercasters may perform. In some cases, these specialists may be the only source of scientific information that some people encounter on a regular basis. Audience research indicates that the weathercast is the most-watched part of the local newscast and the primary reason people choose a local television news product. But very little is known about the qualifications of weathercasters as a group and their inclinations as individuals to educate viewers about scientific topics. This study begins with results from the largest survey ever conducted about television weathercasters. Most of them say their broadcasts are appropriate venues for teaching their audiences about science, and most of them are already doing so. Other results provide a baseline foundation on a variety of other work-related factors, including the consistent public service function for most television weathercasters that includes science communication in their communities. Finally, the study discusses the increasing number of initiatives recently being developed to formalize this potentially powerful role of television weathercasters as prominent science communicators.

Wilson, K., et al. (2008). "Parental views on pediatric vaccination: the impact of competing advocacy coalitions." Public Understanding of Science 17(2): 231-243.	The debate on pediatric vaccination policy has been characterized by the presence of two distinct coalitions: those in favor of current vaccination policies and those expressing concern about these policies. The target of these coalitions is the vaccination decision of parents. To determine their influence, we conducted four focus groups in Toronto, Canada examining parental decision-making concerning pediatric vaccination. Our focus groups consisted of both fathers and mothers and parents who fully vaccinated and those who did not. Using the Advocacy Coalition Framework as an analytic guide, we identified several themes that provided insights into how effective the two coalitions have been in conveying their viewpoints. In general, we identified a variety of levels of belief systems existing amongst parents concerned about vaccination, some more amenable to change than others. We found that the choice to not vaccinate was largely a result of concerns about safety and, to a lesser extent, about lack of effectiveness. These parental views reflected the ability of the coalition concerned about vaccination to challenge parents' trust in traditional public health sources of information. In contrast, the parental decision to vaccinate was due to recognizing the importance of preventing disease and also a consequence of not questioning recommendations from public health and physicians and feeling pressured to because of school policies. Importantly, parents who fully vaccinate appear to have weaker belief systems that are potentially susceptible to change. While current policies appear to be effective in encouraging vaccination, if trust in public health falters, many who currently support vaccination may reevaluate their position. More research needs to be conducted to identify approaches to communicate the risks and benefits of vaccination to parents.

Wilson, K. M. (2000). "Drought, debate, and uncertainty: measuring reporters' knowledge and ignorance about climate change." Public Understanding of Science 9(1): 1-13.	Increasingly, the media are important sources of scientific information; Recent studies indicate that this is especially true for climate change. This study analyzes reporters' understanding of climate change by identifying sources of reporter knowledge about climate change, measuring reporters' acquired knowledge against the scientific consensus, and analyzing differences in reporter knowledge based on several factors that may influence climate change reporting. Results show that reporters who primarily use scientists as sources and who work the environmental beat full-time have the most accurate climate change knowledge.

Wilson, K. M. (2002). "Forecasting the future - How television weathercasters' attitudes and beliefs about climate change affect their cognitive knowledge on the science." Science Communication 24(2): 246-268.	The topic of climate change has recently resurfaced on many news agendas, but increasingly, the scientific and political issues mix. Previous research has noted that even though the public relies primarily on television news as a source of climate change information, broadcasting has few environment and/or science reporters to cover the topic. This study considers another potential source-television weathercasters. This research measures weathercasters' acquired climate change knowledge against the scientific consensus and analyzes differences in their knowledge on the basis of several factors that may influence their climate change reporting. The results show that television weathercasters with the most accurate climate change knowledge scored highest in the affective domain-that is, the attitudes and values they hold about this scientific concept influenced their cognitive understanding of the topic more than any other independent variable. Put more simply-the "politics" of what some consider a controversial scientific topic had the greatest bearing on weathercasters' scientific knowledge.

Wilson, R. S. and J. L. Arvai (2010). "Why less is more: exploring affect-based value neglect." Journal of Risk Research 13(4): 399-409.	Previous research indicates that the affective nature of the problem context can override gains in the evaluability of risk attributes brought on by side-by-side comparisons of two problems. Specifically, in a joint evaluation, an affect-rich problem will be given greater management preference than an affect-neutral problem even when the risk is significantly greater for the neutral problem. A series of new experiments were conducted to explore the relevance of this concept (i.e., affect-based value neglect) for the evaluation of two affect-rich problems. Consistent with previous research, the results indicated no preference for either problem evaluated in isolation, given that both the affective impression and the level of risk were hard to evaluate. Again, consistent with previous research, there was no preference for either problem in a joint evaluation when the difference in risk between the two problems was small (one problem posing 1.5-times greater risk than the other). However, when the risk difference was large - 3-times greater - preference was given to managing the higher-risk problem. Additional evidence indicates that joint evaluations may increase the significance of probabilities as a form of risk communication, and that increased availability of one problem may dominate both initial affective impressions and the presentation of risk attributes.

Winneg, K. M., et al. (2018). "Differences Between Florida and the Rest of the United States in Response to Local Transmission of the Zika Virus: Implications for Future Communication Campaigns." Risk Analysis 38(12): 2546-2560.	For those at risk for Zika virus infection, prevention requires an approach that includes individual, interpersonal, and community-level support for behavior change. In August 2016, the announcement of local Zika transmission in Florida provided an opportunity to determine whether Zika-related knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors might be affected differentially in Florida compared to the rest of the nation. From August 8-October 3, 2016, we conducted nationally representative weekly surveys (N = 12,236), oversampling Florida residents, measuring Zika virus news exposure, knowledge about transmission and prevention of the infection, and attitudes and behaviors toward prevention. We tested two classes of models: those focused on individual Zika risk perceptions (e.g., protection motivation theory) and one focused on community action beyond those directly at risk (social consensus model). Analyses assessed differences between Florida and the rest of the nation by survey week. Consistent with both models, Floridians demonstrated significantly higher levels of perceived susceptibility and knowledge, more positive attitudes toward Zika virus prevention, and higher likelihood of engaging in protective behavior than non-Floridians. Consistent with theories of individual risk perception, response was greater among respondents who saw themselves at risk of infection. However, consistent with the SCM, irrespective of personal risk, response was greater among Floridians. Nevertheless, more than half of the public took no direct action to prevent the spread of Zika. Communities at increased risk for a novel infection such as Zika may quickly acquire Zika-related knowledge, attitudes, and behavior, but large-scale community-wide response might be difficult without further community-level public education.

Winter, E. (2004). "Public communication of science and technology - German and European perspectives." Science Communication 25(3): 288-293.	This essay describes the German initiative Science in Dialogue and its projects in the field of (1) informal science education at the interface of universities and schools, (2) science infiction to reach a wider audience, and (3) public engagement in scientific issues. Listening to the real needs and concerns of the public is a prerequisite for this engagement. Due to the great variety of cultures and languages, a European approach to science communication is a real challenge the recently founded grassroots organization EuroScience has accepted. This essay describes the goals of the first EuroScience Open Forum to be held in Stockholm in August 2004.

Wintle, B. C. and A. Nicholson (2014). "Exploring Risk Judgments in a Trade Dispute Using Bayesian Networks." Risk Analysis 34(6): 1095-1111.	Bayesian networks (BNs) are graphical modeling tools that are generally recommended for exploring what-if scenarios, visualizing systems and problems, and for communication between stakeholders during decision making. In this article, we investigate their potential for exploring different perspectives in trade disputes. To do so, we draw on a specific case study that was arbitrated by the World Trade Organization (WTO): the Australia-New Zealand apples dispute. The dispute centered on disagreement about judgments contained within Australia's 2006 import risk analysis (IRA). We built a range of BNs of increasing complexity that modeled various approaches to undertaking IRAs, from the basic qualitative and semi-quantitative risk analyses routinely performed in government agencies, to the more complex quantitative simulation undertaken by Australia in the apples dispute. We found the BNs useful for exploring disagreements under uncertainty because they are probabilistic and transparently represent steps in the analysis. Different scenarios and evidence can easily be entered. Specifically, we explore the sensitivity of the risk output to different judgments (particularly volume of trade). Thus, we explore how BNs could usefully aid WTO dispute settlement. We conclude that BNs are preferable to basic qualitative and semi-quantitative risk analyses because they offer an accessible interface and are mathematically sound. However, most current BN modeling tools are limited compared with complex simulations, as was used in the 2006 apples IRA. Although complex simulations may be more accurate, they are a black box for stakeholders. BNs have the potential to be a transparent aid to complex decision making, but they are currently computationally limited. Recent technological software developments are promising.

Wirz, C. D., et al. (2018). "Rethinking Social Amplification of Risk: Social Media and Zika in Three Languages." Risk Analysis 38(12): 2599-2624.	Using the Zika outbreak as a context of inquiry, this study examines how assigning blame on social media relates to the social amplification of risk framework (SARF). Past research has discussed the relationship between the SARF and traditional mass media, but the role of social media platforms in amplification or attenuation of risk perceptions remains understudied. Moreover, the communication and perceptions of Zika-related risk are not limited to discussions in English. To capture conversations in languages spoken by affected countries, this study combines data in English, Spanish, and Portuguese. To better understand the assignment of blame and perceptions of risk in new media environments, we looked at three different facets of conversations surrounding Zika on Facebook and Twitter: the prominence of blame in each language, how specific groups were discussed throughout the Zika outbreak, and the sentiment expressed about genetically engineered (GE) mosquitoes. We combined machine learning with human coding to analyze public discourse in all three languages. We found differences between languages and platforms in the amount of blame assigned to different groups. We also found more negative sentiments expressed about GE mosquitoes on Facebook than on Twitter. These meaningful differences only emerge from analyses across the three different languages and platforms, pointing to the importance of multilingual approaches for risk communication research. Specific recommendations for outbreak and risk communication practitioners are also discussed.

Wisniewski, A. E. (2013). "The weight of communication: The Canadian Medical Association Journal's discourse on obesity." Public Understanding of Science 22(3): 351-364.	In this exploratory analysis, I use a Burkean dramatist approach to investigate the relatively under-examined dynamics of how medical knowledge on obesity has changed outside of the American context. I examine how, over the past forty years, Canadian medical professionals have used the Canadian Medical Association Journal to generate a field of knowledge which organizes the ways in which obesity can be described, studied and treated. I argue that since the 1970s medical professionals have been increasingly interested in the relationship between obesity and a broadly defined social environment, and that this merger is rhetorically realized in the concept of the "obesogenic environment." I suggest that the process of engaging obesity has generated rhetoric that has often been resonant with the political ideologies expressed in health policy, but that can also create opportunities for the expression of alternative social goals.

Witteman, H. O., et al. (2015). "Risk Communication, Values Clarification, and Vaccination Decisions." Risk Analysis 35(10): 1801-1819.	Many health-related decisions require choosing between two options, each with risks and benefits. When presented with such tradeoffs, people often make choices that fail to align with scientific evidence or with their own values. This study tested whether risk communication and values clarification methods could help parents and guardians make evidence-based, values-congruent decisions about children's influenza vaccinations. In 2013-2014 we conducted an online 2x2 factorial experiment in which a diverse sample of U.S. parents and guardians (n = 407) were randomly assigned to view either standard information about influenza vaccines or risk communication using absolute and incremental risk formats. Participants were then either presented or not presented with an interactive values clarification interface with constrained sliders and dynamic visual feedback. Participants randomized to the risk communication condition combined with the values clarification interface were more likely to indicate intentions to vaccinate ( = 2.10, t(399) = 2.63, p < 0.01). The effect was particularly notable among participants who had previously demonstrated less interest in having their children vaccinated against influenza ( = -2.14, t(399) = -2.06, p < 0.05). When assessing vaccination status reported by participants who agreed to participate in a follow-up study six months later (n = 116), vaccination intentions significantly predicted vaccination status (OR = 1.66, 95%CI (1.13, 2.44), p < 0.05) and rates of informed choice (OR = 1.51, 95%CI (1.07, 2.13), p < 0.012), although there were no direct effects of experimental factors on vaccination rates. Qualitative analysis suggested that logistical barriers impeded immunization rates. Risk communication and values clarification methods may contribute to increased vaccination intentions, which may, in turn, predict vaccination status if logistical barriers are also addressed.

Witzling, L., et al. (2015). "Incorporating Information Exposure Into a Theory of Planned Behavior Model to Enrich Understanding of Proenvironmental Behavior." Science Communication 37(5): 551-574.	This study proposes including variables related to information exposure as background variables in a theory of planned behavior (TPB) model. Minimizing the spread of aquatic invasive species by anglers provides context. A survey was administered to anglers that included TPB and information channel items. Regression analysis found that exposure to information from different channels was associated with TPB variables, though the direction and strength varied. Including information exposure in a TPB model may clarify underlying mechanisms in environmental behavior change campaigns.

Wodak, J. (2018). "Shifting Baselines: Conveying Climate Change in Popular Music." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(1): 58-70.	Popular music is a generation-specific zeitgeist, while music affords otherwise unobtainable engagement with environmental themes. Despite being the most widespread form of music there is a paucity of scholarship on climate change vis-a-vis popular music. In turn, this article explores how popular music may provide a soundtrack that narrates the rapidity of contemporary biophysical change. Approaches of conveying versus communicating climate change in music are considered across a spectrum of musical forms, from contemporary and historical popular music to contemporary classical music and sound art. The article applies the framework of shifting baselines to music engaged with environmental change in order to formulate a closer relationship between objective and quantitative intergenerational biophysical change and subjective and qualitative socio-cultural change. To cease losing track of such inexorable degradation, the article speculates on future musical forms that may obviate such intergenerational myopia by conveying and/or communicating the unprecedented rapidity of biophysical change.

Wolfe, D. (2008). "The Ecological Jeremiad, the American Myth, and the Vivid Force of Color in Dr. Seuss's The Lorax." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 2(1): 3-24.	This essay explores Dr. Seuss's The Lorax through a combination of contextual, visual and narrative-based criticism. Specifically, rhetorical forms of the jeremiad and myth are examined as adaptations to the medium of children's literature. In addition, the force of illustrated images is discussed, including the rhetorical force of color. The essay begins with a discussion of both Dr. Seuss and The Lorax within the contexts of the early environmental movement's rhetoric of alarm and political activism. It then outlines Seuss's attempt at "propaganda with a plot'' arguing that a collision of the American myth and ecological jeremiad parallel and divert from the environmentalist norm. A detailed analysis of illustrated imagery and the function of color demonstrate the rhetorical force toward narration and ideology possible in the visual form.

Wolfe, D. (2009). "The Video Rhizome: Taking Technology Seriously in The Meatrix." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 3(3): 317-334.	This essay discusses how The Meatrix, an animated criticism of factory farming, functions to entice and engage its viewers in productive dissemination. Widely distributed online, The Meatrix is often categorized with other popular new media phenomena as a viral video. This essay first argues that the use of the viral metaphor is flawed with mechanistic thinking. Second, the author introduces Deleuze and Guattari's rhizome as an alternative model. Third, The Meatrix rhizome is discussed as an intricate relationship of intertextuality, technological dissemination, and user experience. Finally, the author encourages academics and activists alike to reconsider mechanistic thinking of new media in favor of the text as an open, distributed system.

Wolfe, D. and K. Russell (2010). "Garden/Art: The Nature-Based Sculpture Program of the South Carolina Botanical Garden." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 4(2): 237-249.	This essay discusses an art program developed to engage viewers in environmental thought through unexpected experiences. Spread over 300 acres, the 15 nature-based sculptures of the South Carolina Botanical Garden (SCBG) are creative interventions developed with local natural materials to suit their separate unique sites. Since its inception in 1995, the SCBG's sculpture program has worked with artists of national and international prominence to create a world-renowned collection of nature-based site-specific sculptures. Placed in various terrains, without explanation, visitors to the garden experience the art outside of the more common context of gallery or museum space. The sculptures blur distinctions between nature and culture, as well as disrupt the presuppositions attached to public spaces, natural spaces, and artistic expression.

Woo, J. (2002). "The construction of science and knowledge in courts - The use of scientific evidence and experts in software copyright cases." Science Communication 23(3): 264-292.	This article examines how software copyright courts deal with the challenges posed by computer technology in their application and modification of rules regarding scientific evidence, especially, in their choice between alternative ways for admitting and evaluating scientific knowledge and testimony. In the face of a technological challenge, courts are more likely to depend on external sources of technical authority. In this process, the conceptualization of what is science and scientific knowledge is constructed in a way that acknowledges expert testimony rather than layperson opinion and a computer developer's knowledge and skills rather than a user's knowledge and experience.

Wood, M. D., et al. (2012). "Cognitive Mapping Tools: Review and Risk Management Needs." Risk Analysis 32(8): 1333-1348.	Risk managers are increasingly interested in incorporating stakeholder beliefs and other human factors into the planning process. Effective risk assessment and management requires understanding perceptions and beliefs of involved stakeholders, and how these beliefs give rise to actions that influence risk management decisions. Formal analyses of risk manager and stakeholder cognitions represent an important first step. Techniques for diagramming stakeholder mental models provide one tool for risk managers to better understand stakeholder beliefs and perceptions concerning risk, and to leverage this new understanding in developing risk management strategies. This article reviews three methodologies for assessing and diagramming stakeholder mental modelsdecision-analysis-based mental modeling, concept mapping, and semantic web analysisand assesses them with regard to their ability to address risk manager needs.

Wood, M. M., et al. (2012). "Communicating Actionable Risk for Terrorism and Other Hazards?" Risk Analysis 32(4): 601-615.	We propose a shift in emphasis when communicating to people when the objective is to motivate household disaster preparedness actions. This shift is to emphasize the communication of preparedness actions (what to do about risk) rather than risk itself. We have called this perspective communicating actionable risk, and it is grounded in diffusion of innovations and communication theories. A representative sample of households in the nation was analyzed using a path analytic framework. Preparedness information variables (including content, density, and observation), preparedness mediating variables (knowledge, perceived effectiveness, and milling), and preparedness actions taken were modeled. Clear results emerged that provide a strong basis for communicating actionable risk, and for the conclusion both that information observed (seeing preparedness actions that other have taken) and information received (receiving recommendations about what preparedness actions to take) play key, although different, roles in motivating preparedness actions among the people in our nation.

Woods, R., et al. (2012). "The use of religious metaphors by UK newspapers to describe and denigrate climate change." Public Understanding of Science 21(3): 323-339.	British newspapers have denigrated anthropogenic climate change by misrepresenting scientific consensus and/or framing climate change within unsympathetic discourses. One aspect of the latter that has not been studied is the use of metaphor to disparage climate change science and proponents. This article analyses 122 British newspaper articles published using a religious metaphor between summer 2003 and 2008. Most were critical of climate change, especially articles in conservative newspapers The Daily Telegraph, Daily Mail and The Times. Articles used religion as a source of metaphor to denigrate climate change in two ways: (1) undermining its scientific status by presenting it as irrational faith-based religion, and proponents as religious extremists intolerant of criticism; (2) mocking climate change using notions of sin, e.g. describing 'green' behaviours as atonement or sacrifice. We argue that the religious metaphor damages constructive debate by emphasizing morality and how climate change is discussed, and detracting attention from the content of scientific data and theories.

Woolley, M. (1998). "Populism and scientific decision making." Science Communication 20(1): 52-55.	The author calk; for science communication scholars to play a greeter role in helping to understand the processes, impacts, and implications of an enhanced public role in science policy decision making. A number of potential research topics are listed including the role of celebrities in information campaigns, how public input changes priority-setting activities, and the significance of technology-driven public access to scientific information.

Wozniak, A., et al. (2015). "Frames, Stories, and Images: The Advantages of a Multimodal Approach in Comparative Media Content Research on Climate Change." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(4): 469-490.	This paper presents a multimodal research design for the standardized content analysis of climate change coverage in print media. The concepts of framing, narration, and visual representation are integrated into a single coding instrument that can be applied to large-scale media samples from different countries. The proposed research design combines existing measures and novel operationalization. Intercoder reliability scores are reported from a pretest covering newspaper material from Germany, India, South Africa, and the USA. Most variables can be reliably applied across these very different countries, with some exceptions in the more exploratory narrative segment of the analysis. The paper also shows how a multimodal approach to coding climate change coverage can help to avoid potentially one-sided interpretations based on single-mode approaches.

Wright, N. and B. Nerlich (2006). "Use of the deficit model in a shared culture of argumentation: the case of foot and mouth science." Public Understanding of Science 15(3): 331-342.	The "deficit model" as an explanation of the public understanding of science has attracted sustained criticism. While acknowledging the limitations of the deficit model, we argue that researchers should not abandon all interest in exploring it. Our results suggest that the deficit model is an important part of a culture of argumentation shared by both scientists and members of the public, and drawn upon as explanations of the public understanding of science. We carried out discourse analysis of a focus group conducted at the height of the UK's Foot and Mouth Disease crisis. The focus of our analysis was a debate about the science behind the spread and control of the virus. The results point to the importance of the deficit model in the public understanding of the public understanding of science. The challenge is to look to other ways of describing the relation between science and society, while recognizing that the deficit model serves scientists, the public and others alike as a resource for political discourse.

Wu, G. S. and H. Qiu (2013). "Popular science publishing in contemporary China." Public Understanding of Science 22(5): 521-529.	Since the 1950s China's popular science publishing has been the business of the government, and subject to its will. China adopted a system of planned economies, as the Soviet Union did, until the 1980s when a policy of reform and opening-up was adopted. During the period of the planned economies, popular science publishing was not a commercial but a governmental enterprise. More than 100 million copies of the most representative publication of this period, One Hundred Thousand Whys, have been distributed. The Unmoved Mover Series of the 1990s was a milestone in the new era. What is significant about this series is that it broke through the prevailing mode of science-popularization as serving for industrial and agricultural production, serving for ideology'. China's popular science publishing has its defects, genetically and culturally. In an age of marketization, popular science books are frequently applauded by the experts, but not enjoyed by general readers.

Wu, H. C., et al. (2014). "Effects of Track and Threat Information on Judgments of Hurricane Strike Probability." Risk Analysis 34(6): 1025-1039.	Although evacuation is one of the best strategies for protecting citizens from hurricane threat, the ways that local elected officials use hurricane data in deciding whether to issue hurricane evacuation orders is not well understood. To begin to address this problem, we examined the effects of hurricane track and intensity information in a laboratory setting where participants judged the probability that hypothetical hurricanes with a constant bearing (i.e., straight line forecast track) would make landfall in each of eight 45 degree sectors around the Gulf of Mexico. The results from 162 participants in a student sample showed that the judged strike probability distributions over the eight sectors within each scenario were, unsurprisingly, unimodal and centered on the sector toward which the forecast track pointed. More significantly, although strike probability judgments for the sector in the direction of the forecast track were generally higher than the corresponding judgments for the other sectors, the latter were not zero. Most significantly, there were no appreciable differences in the patterns of strike probability judgments for hurricane tracks represented by a forecast track only, an uncertainty cone only, or forecast track with an uncertainty cone-a result consistent with a recent survey of coastal residents threatened by Hurricane Charley. The study results suggest that people are able to correctly process basic information about hurricane tracks but they do make some errors. More research is needed to understand the sources of these errors and to identify better methods of displaying uncertainty about hurricane parameters.

Wu, L. Y., et al. (2015). "Piloting a Collaboration Between Education and Broadcast Journalism in Taiwan." Science Communication 37(4): 542-548.	In Taiwan, the production of science news would benefit by cooperation between communication (e.g., the news production team) and science education (e.g., instructional designers and scientists involved). The news production team is skilled in exposing stories vividly to motivate audiences, whereas the science education team carefully curates the scientific and instructional content. Therefore, we started the Different Science News project, which strives to align the above features of science news production. Through using concurrent, local, and concise materials that occur in daily lives, we hope to promote the public understanding of science.

Wylie, C. D. (2012). "Teaching Children Science: Hands-on Nature Study in North America, 1890-1930." Public Understanding of Science 21(2): 254-255.
	
Wynne, B. (2008). "Elephants in the rooms where publics encounter "science"?: A response to Darrin Durant, "Accounting for expertise: Wynne and the autonomy of the lay public"." Public Understanding of Science 17(1): 21-33.
	
Wynne, B. (2014). "Further disorientation in the hall of mirrors." Public Understanding of Science 23(1): 60-70.	This paper reviews some changes and continuities in science-society relations which have shaped this journal's birth and development. I argue that the main focus on publics has been developed with insufficient primary attention to problematising what is meant by science' in its variable public forms, including discourses. We cannot understand publics' in relation to science', unless we also ask, searchingly, what is it that they experience as such, in all its multiple self-contradictions and confusions? Thus I reiterate the point made in the inaugural issue, still neglected in mainstream science and policy, that science' needs to be critically addressed in several dimensions, as part of public understanding of science research. First, instrumental pragmatic scientific meanings, useful in their own parochial situations, should not be given automatic sovereignty in public issues. Second, public concerns where they exist should not be interpreted and judged against this presumptively entrenched scientistic normative baseline.

Xie, X. F., et al. (2011). "The 'Typhoon Eye Effect': determinants of distress during the SARS epidemic." Journal of Risk Research 14(9): 1091-1107.	This study examined the effect of the SARS crisis on the level of distress in people both in and around epidemic areas of China during the time of the crisis. We designed a questionnaire to measure personality factors, beliefs regarding SARS, behavioral responses to SARS, and distress levels. The level of exposure to SARS was not a primary determinant of experienced anxiety; indeed, nearness to the center of the epidemic was negatively related to anxiety levels. Instead, more subjective interpretations of the situation were the primary determinants of distress. We propose a 'Typhoon Eye Effect' metaphor to describe the spread of psychological distress.

Xie, X. F., et al. (2011). "The Role of Emotions in Risk Communication." Risk Analysis 31(3): 450-465.	We present two experiments investigating the role of emotions concerning technological and natural hazards. In the first experiment, technological hazards aroused stronger emotions, and were considered to be riskier than natural hazards. No differences were found between the texts versus audio presentations. However, the presence of pictures aroused stronger emotions and increased the perceived risk. Emotions play a mediating role between hazard types and perceived risk, as well as between pictures and perceived risk. The second experiment adopted real-world materials from webpages and TV. Emotions again play a mediating role between pictorial information and risk perception. Moreover, specific emotions were found to be associated with different types of action tendencies. For example, loss-based emotions (e.g., fear, regret) tend to lead to prevention strategies, whereas ethical emotions (e.g., anger) lead to aggressive behavior. We also find that loss-based emotions in the technical hazard scenario trigger more coping strategies (from prevention to retaliation) than in the natural hazard scenario.

Xu, L. J., et al. (2015). "Mapping science communication scholarship in China: Content analysis on breadth, depth and agenda of published research." Public Understanding of Science 24(8): 897-912.	This study attempted to illuminate the cause and relation between government, scholars, disciplines, and societal aspects, presenting data from a content analysis of published research with the key word science communication(????)in the title or in the key words, including academic papers published in journals and dissertations from the China National Knowledge Infrastructure database. Of these, 572 articles were coded using categories that identified science topics, theory, authorship, and methods used in each study to examine the breadth and depth that Science Communication has achieved since its inception in China. This study explored the dominance of History and Philosophy of Science scholars rather than Communication scholars. We also explored how science communication research began from theories and concepts instead of science report analysis and the difficulties of the shift from public understanding of science to public engagement in China.

Xu, Q., et al. (2018). "User Engagement in Public Discourse on Genetically Modified Organisms: The Role of Opinion Leaders on Social Media." Science Communication 40(6): 691-717.	This study adopted a quantitative content analysis to examine how source attributes of opinion leaders and their message framing influenced user engagement in the public discourse of genetically modified organism (GMO) on Chinese social media. The findings showed that different source attributes and message frames used by opinion leaders varied in their respective influences on three dimensions of user engagement-reposts, comments, and likes. The attribute of account verification only predicted surface-level engagement (i.e., liking), whereas account type significantly influenced in-depth engagement (i.e., reposting and commenting). The fact, opportunity, pro-GMO, and international frames positively predicted user engagement.

Yacoumis, P. (2018). "Making Progress? Reproducing Hegemony Through Discourses of "Sustainable Development" in the Australian News Media." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(6): 840-853.	While numerous studies have investigated discourses of sustainable development in a variety of institutional and academic contexts, media discourses on this issue have remained largely unexamined. But considering the intertwined nature of media and society, the construction of sustainable development in the news may be an important factor shaping future ecological and social outcomes. Proceeding from the thesis that the news is a site in which hegemony may be reproduced, this paper critically analyses discourses used to construct sustainable development in news texts published over the 10-year period 2004-2013 across the eight most widely circulated newspapers in Australia. The findings show that sustainable development news is confined to a narrow range of discourses that largely serve to perpetuate the status quo, which is broadly consistent with the media hegemony thesis. Finally, I discuss the implications of these findings, propose possible explanations, and explore avenues for future research.

Yamamoto, Y. T. (2012). "Values, objectivity and credibility of scientists in a contentious natural resource debate." Public Understanding of Science 21(1): 101-125.	In contentious natural resource debates, the credibility of scientists is at risk. In this case study, citizens in contending communities and scientists in a forest management controversy constructed the scientists' credibility differently. Shared values and views of the nature of science and objectivity were primary factors for constructing scientists' credibility. Citizens who expected value-free, objective scientists to authenticate their knowledge were concerned about how the values of scientists on the opposite side affected research framing. Citizens who emphasized limited objectivity were less skeptical of scientists. Scientists acknowledged their values but defended their credibility in terms of professional standards, balance and resource constraints. In short, scientists' credibility is relative because each individual has unique values and views of the nature of science and objectivity. Through a collaborative policymaking process, citizens and scientists should develop shared values and visions to reconstruct a temporary, intersubjective sense of credibility.

Yaneva, A., et al. (2009). "Staging scientific controversies: a gallery test on science museums' interactivity." Public Understanding of Science 18(1): 79-90.	The "transfer" model in science communication has been addressed critically from different perspectives, while the advantages of the interactive model have been continuously praised. Yet, little is done to account for the specific role of the interactive model in communicating "unfinished science." The traditional interactive methods in museums are not sufficient to keep pace with rapid scientific developments. Interactive exchanges between laypeople and experts are thought mainly through the lens of a dialogue that is facilitated and framed by the traditional "conference room" architecture. Drawing on the results of a small-scale experiment in a gallery space, we argue for the need for a new "architecture of interaction" in museum settings based on art installation and simulation techniques, which will enhance the communication potentials of science museums and will provide conditions for a fruitful even-handed exchange of expert and lay knowledge.

Yang, A. M. and W. L. Liu (2018). "Corporate Environmental Responsibility and Global Online Cross-sector Alliance Network: A Cross-national Study." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(1): 99-114.	With the rise of global environmental issues and the emerging trend of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and corporation-non-governmental organization (NGO) alliances, organizations are developing collaborative alliances across sectors and nations to address environment problems. An international perspective is needed to explain the global structure of cross-sector alliance networks and the divergence or similarity of CSR communication across nations. This exploratory study draws insights from the national business systems (NBS) approach and applies social network analysis to examine the cross-sector alliance network among Global 500 Fortune corporations and 441 environmental international NGOs. Findings suggest that (1) an NBS approach to CSR can explain the network structural features of a cross-sector alliance network; (2) political context and national education level strongly predict green partnerships; and (3) regional differences are apparent in the global network, with Asian corporations lagging behind in cross-sector alliance building.

Yang, C., et al. (2018). "Understanding Fear of Zika: Personal, Interpersonal, and Media Influences." Risk Analysis 38(12): 2535-2545.	Fear of infectious disease often motivates people to protect themselves. But, it can also produce negative bio-social-psychological effects whose severity is on par with those of the disease. The WHO declaration of Zika as a world health crisis presented an opportunity to study factors that bring about fear. Beginning nine days after the WHO announcement, data were gathered from women aged 18-35 living in the southern United States (N = 719). Respondents reported experiencing fear of Zika at levels akin to those reported following other significant crises/disasters (e.g., the terrorist attacks of 9/11). Fear increased as a function of (1) personal, but not other-relevance, (2) frequency of media exposure, but not media content, and (3) frequency of interpersonal exposure and interpersonal content. It is argued that media and interpersonal message sources may be innately predisposed to amplify, rather than attenuate, risk.

Yang, J. Z. and H. R. Chu (2018). "Who is afraid of the Ebola outbreak? The influence of discrete emotions on risk perception." Journal of Risk Research 21(7): 834-853.	The appraisal tendency framework (ATF) suggests that discrete emotions mediate the relationship between cognitive appraisals and behaviors. Based on the ATF, this study analyzed and found that fear, anger, anxiety, disgust, and sadness were positively related to the US public's risk perception about the Ebola outbreak. Fear was also found to inhibit the degree to which systematic processing of the relevant risk information influenced participants' support for institutional mitigation measures such as sending more health professionals to help countries in West Africa deal with the Ebola outbreak. The result partially confirms the ATF and offers important practical implications in regard to the communication of emergent public health crises.

Yang, Z. J. (2012). "Too Scared or Too Capable? Why Do College Students Stay Away from the H1N1 Vaccine?" Risk Analysis 32(10): 1703-1716.	Although college students were among the populations that had the highest frequency of infection for H1N1 influenza, only 8% of them received H1N1 vaccine this past flu season nationwide. During the peak of this pandemic, information about H1N1 vaccine was widely available. However, knowledge test and behavioral data indicated that most college students were not equipped with basic facts about H1N1 and the H1N1 vaccine. To investigate socio-psychological factors that might have deterred this high-risk population from learning about and getting the H1N1 vaccine, this study tested the utility of a risk information seeking model in addressing this health communication problem. Data collected from an online survey of 371 college students showed that respondents seemed to overestimate how much they knew about the vaccine. Risk information seeking, however, positively influenced their intentions to get the vaccine. Results suggested that to communicate effectively to this population, it is important to emphasize the difference between perceived knowledge and actual knowledge, monitor emotional responses to potential risks, and promote getting flu vaccination as a socially desirable behavior.

Yang, Z. J. (2016). "Altruism During Ebola: Risk Perception, Issue Salience, Cultural Cognition, and Information Processing." Risk Analysis 36(6): 1079-1089.	A nationally representative sample of 1,046 U.S. adults was randomly assigned to two experimental conditions that triggered different degrees of risk perception related to the Ebola outbreak. In the high-risk condition, issue salience and deliberate processing increased individuals' altruistic behavioral intention. In contrast, cultural cognition worldview and negative emotions such as sadness and anger were significantly related to altruistic behavioral intention regardless of the experimental conditions. These findings suggest that affective responses diverge from cognitive processes in influencing risk-related decisions. Practically, as the United States continues to send experts to the affected countries in West Africa, results from this study suggest meaningful pathways to improve risk communication intended to encourage more altruistic and pro-social behaviors.

Yang, Z. J. and L. Kahlor (2013). "What, Me Worry? The Role of Affect in Information Seeking and Avoidance." Science Communication 35(2): 189-212.	Guided by the risk information-seeking and processing model, this study examines positive and negative affect separately in their influence on information-seeking intentions and avoidance through structural equation analyses. The highlight is that information avoidance seems to be driven by positive affect, while information seeking seems to be more heavily influenced by negative affect. Another interesting finding is that informational subjective norms are positively related to both seeking and avoidance, which suggests that one's social environment has the potential to strongly influence the way he or she handles climate change information. Implications for theory and practice are discussed.

Yang, Z. J., et al. (2010). "Applying the theory of planned behavior to study health decisions related to potential risks." Journal of Risk Research 13(8): 1007-1026.	This study examines theoretical linkages between the Risk Information Seeking and Processing model (RISP) and the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) in a context of health decision making related to potential risks involved in clinical trials. A decade after the RISP model was proposed, abundant empirical evidence attesting to the model's robustness in depicting individuals' motivations for risk information seeking and processing deems that it is crucial to continue this exploration. Data from two telephone surveys showed that individuals who tended to process relevant risk information in a more systematic manner were more likely to report favorable attitudes toward clinical trials and express a willingness to enroll in a future trial. Those who reported greater trust in their doctors were also more likely to report favorable attitudes and willingness to enroll. In contrast, risk perceptions were negatively related to favorable attitudes toward clinical trials. Comparing several structural models specified to the data, individuals' tendency to rely on independent decisions seemed to moderate the relationship between subjective norm and behavioral intention. Using regression coefficients estimates to plot this interaction, among those who tended to rely on independent decisions, influence from their doctors might lead to less willingness to enroll in a future trial. Results from this study suggest that in an effort to pursue theory development within a unique research context, we could also identify important pathways to improve health communication practice related to patient accrual for clinical trials.

Yang, Z. J., et al. (2014). "Applying the Risk Information Seeking and Processing Model to Examine Support for Climate Change Mitigation Policy." Science Communication 36(3): 296-324.	This study applies the risk information seeking and processing (RISP) model to examine how information processing influences individuals' support for climate change mitigation policy. Perceived issue salience, attitude toward climate information, and systematic processing are positively related to policy support, whereas heuristic processing is not a significant predictor. The direct and indirect relationships illustrated in the model help expand the utility of the risk information seeking and processing model to address policy support. From an applied perspective, this study suggests important pathways to encourage systematic processing of information related to climate change, which may lead to increased public support for mitigation policies.

Yang, Z. J., et al. (2015). "Information sufficiency and attribution of responsibility: predicting support for climate change policy and proenvironmental behavior." Journal of Risk Research 18(6): 727-746.
	
Yang, Z. Y., et al. (2015). "How Anxiety Leads to Suboptimal Decisions Under Risky Choice Situations." Risk Analysis 35(10): 1789-1800.	The current research proposes that situationally activated anxietywhether incidental or integralimpairs decision making. In particular, we theorize that anxiety drives decisionmakers to more heavily emphasize subjective anecdotal information in their decision making, at the expense of more factual statistical informationa deleterious heuristic called the anecdotal bias. Four studies provide consistent support for this assertion. Studies 1A and 1B feature field experiments that demonstrate the role of incidental anxiety in enhancing the anecdotal bias in a choice context. Study 2 builds on these findings, manipulating individuals' incidental anxiety and showing how this affects the anecdotal bias in the context of message evaluations. Study 2 also provides direct evidence that only high-arousal negative emotions such as anxiety/worry enhance the anecdotal bias, not just any negative emotion (e.g., sadness). While the first three studies examine how incidental anxiety impacts choice, the last study demonstrates the effect of integral anxiety on decision making, manipulating anxiety by intensifying participants' perceived risk. Our results show thatconsistent with findings from our first three studiesthe anecdotal bias is enhanced when anxiety is heightened by individuals' perception of risk.

Yaros, R. A. (2011). "Effects of Text and Hypertext Structures on User Interest and Understanding of Science and Technology." Science Communication 33(3): 275-308.	An experiment (N = 301) manipulated two news stories about science and technology to investigate effects of text and link structures on interest and comprehension. A 2 (Text) x 2 (Link) factorial design included inverted pyramid stories versus a linear narrative. Dependent variables included self-reported interest plus situational understanding. In support of construction-integration theory, the highest interest and understanding scores occurred when the linear (narrative) text structure was read with linear links. Surprisingly, interest and understanding scores placed second for matched nonlinear text and nonlinear links. Mismatched text and links for either condition consistently resulted in poor understanding.

Yasui, S. (2013). "An analysis of the argument over the health effects of low-dose radiation exposure caused by the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi APP in Japan." Journal of Risk Research 16(8): 937-944.	Since the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi Atomic Power Plant last March, there has been a huge controversy over the potential health effects of low-dose radiation exposure. This paper critically examines the argument between mainstream experts and nonmainstreamers, which is revealed as an interdisciplinary argument caused by the differences in the specialties to which the experts belong. The concepts of confounding control and statistical significance, which are epidemiologically powerful tools that can disprove the argument that harm was caused by other causes, appeared to be less effective for denying the existence of a hazard entirely. The concept of risk is the most significant cause of confusion related to low-dose exposure because the epidemiologists assume that risk is the incidence rate of diseases, but biologists believe that risk includes DNA damage that may cause cancer in the future. This paper also reveals that public debate is useful to make collective choices and decisions rationally when inferential questions become the subjects of dispute.

Yearley, S. (1997). "Environmental values in American culture - Kempton,W, Boster,JS, Hartley,JA." Public Understanding of Science 6(2): 213-214.
	
Yearley, S. (2000). "Making systematic sense of public discontents with expert knowledge: two analytical approaches and a case study." Public Understanding of Science 9(2): 105-122.	Several recent strands of work within science studies, risk analysis, the public understanding of science, and environmental policy analysis have focused on the significance of lay knowledge and expertise. In case after case, it has been suggested that "expert" accounts of physical reality have conflicted with local people's knowledge and that rather than local knowledge being routinely inferior and defective, it has commonly proven more sensitive to local "realities." These cases have become favored sites for studying public discontents with expert knowledge. Though the primary style of analysis in this emerging tradition has consisted of the case study, two conceptual schema for clarifying this topic have recently been proposed by Funtowicz and Ravetz and by Wynne. This paper uses a case study in the local understanding of an air-quality model to undertake a conceptual and empirical assessment of these contrasting analytical frameworks.

Yeo, S. K., et al. (2017). "The case of #arseniclife: Blogs and Twitter in informal peer review." Public Understanding of Science 26(8): 937-952.	Using the #arseniclife controversy as a case study, we examine the roles of blogs and Twitter in post-publication review. The controversy was initiated by a scientific article about bacteria able to substitute arsenic for phosphorus in its genetic material. We present the debate chronologically, using prominent online media to reconstruct the events. Using tweets that discussed the controversy, we conducted quantitative sentiment analysis to examine skeptical and non-skeptical tones on Twitter. Critiques of and studies refuting the arsenic life hypothesis were publicized on blogs before formal publication in traditional academic spaces and were shared on Twitter, influencing issue salience among a range of audiences. This case exemplifies the role of new media in informal post-publication peer review, which can complement traditional peer review processes. The implications drawn from this case study for future conduct and transparency of both formal and informal peer review are discussed.

Yeo, T. E. D. (2014). "Negotiating Virtue and Vice: Articulations of Lay Conceptions of Health and Sustainability in Social Media Conversations around Natural Beverages." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 8(1): 39-57.	Prior studies have suggested that despite increasing sustainability awareness, many consumers are confused about the impact of green products on their health and the environment. Unlike those studies that privilege professional discourse and adopt unrealistic presumptions of rationality and morality, this article showcases consumers as active co-producers of value and meanings. Using netnography, it analyzes social media conversations around Naked Juice and Innocent smoothies-two products marketed as healthy, all-natural, and environmentally sustainable beverages. The findings reveal a baseline picture of the products' virtues of healthiness feeling (hedonic) and holistic health image (symbolic). The article illustrates how this moral conception was dynamically constructed and transformed in the course of consumers' communicative practices. It proposes three discursive strategies by which consumers negotiate the nature and boundaries of good and bad choices vis-a-vis the products: highlighting (separating virtue from vice), balancing (reconciling virtue and vice), and resisting (reconstructing virtue as vice).

Yi, C. J. and M. Kuri (2016). "The prospect of online communication in the event of a disaster." Journal of Risk Research 19(7): 951-963.	In modern society, enormous amounts of information are instantly exchanged, and topics shift rapidly. People desire and share information to foster a sense of membership in their societies. The trend of Internet communication is present in many types of groups. During the circumstances of disasters, the 2011 Great East Japan earthquake and Tsunami and Typhoon Haiyan (local name, Yolanda) in the Philippines in 2013, social networking services (SNS) constituted a considerably effective method for sharing/exchanging information about the significance of the disaster, confirming family members' and friends' whereabouts, locating shelters, relief, food and goods rationing, and so on. Not only did individuals seek/provide information, but government agencies also utilized the social media channels to communicate with the public. Hence, developing and adopting communication in a virtual space were considerably effective for decision-makers in providing emergency services. This study examined SNS users' accounts based on discretionary decisions during two major disasters: the Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami in 2011 and Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines in 2013. In the case of the Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami in 2011, government agencies and NPOs actively utilized SNS functions, whereas the mass media distributed information during Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines in 2013.

Yli-Kauhaluoma, S. and H. Hanninen (2014). "Tale taming radioactive fears: Linking nuclear waste disposal to the "continuum of the good"." Public Understanding of Science 23(3): 316-330.	We examine how the constructor of the world's first repository for the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel in Eurajoki, Finland, aims to shape lay understanding of the facility's risks and to tame the nuclear fears of the local community by producing positive associations, imagery and tales. Our empirical material consists of the constructor's newsletters targeted mainly at the local residents. In the narrative analysis, we identified a storyline where the construction of the repository is linked into the "continuum of the good" in the municipality of the construction site and the surrounding areas. The storyline consists of five different themes all emphasizing the "continuum of the good" in the area: cultural heritage, well-being, developing expertise, natural environment, and local families. Our study contributes to the literature on pro-nuclear storytelling by showing how the inclination is towards narratives that are constructed around local symbols, cultural landmarks, and institutions.

Ylonen, M., et al. (2017). "The (de)politicisation of nuclear power: The Finnish discussion after Fukushima." Public Understanding of Science 26(3): 260-274.	When the Fukushima accident occurred in March 2011, Finland was at the height of a nuclear renaissance, with the Government's decision-in-principle in 2010 to allow construction of two new nuclear reactors. This article examines the nuclear power debate in Finland after Fukushima. We deploy the concepts of (de)politicisation and hyperpoliticisation in the analysis of articles in the country's main newspaper. Our analysis indicates that Finnish nuclear exceptionalism manifested in the safety-related depoliticising and the nation's prosperity-related hyperpoliticisation arguments of the pro-nuclear camp. The anti-nuclear camp used politicisation strategies, such as economic arguments, to show the unprofitability of nuclear power. The Fukushima accident had a clear effect on Finnish nuclear policy: the government programme of 2011 excluded the nuclear new build. However, in 2014 the majority of Parliament again supported nuclear power. Hence, the period after Fukushima until 2014 could be described as continued but undermined loyalty to nuclear power.

Yoho, R. A. and B. E. Rittmann (2018). "Climate Change and Energy Technologies in Undergraduate Introductory Science Textbooks." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 12(6): 731-743.	Global climate change and the implementation of energy technologies are among the most pressing issues facing society and the environment today. Related educational content spans the science disciplines. Through an analysis of introductory-level university textbooks from four major US publishers in Biology, Chemistry, and Physics, this study presents trends in terminology and content. As the defining terms, global warming and climate change are used nearly equally. However, the first location of a working definition for climate change appears earlier. Energy technologies, climate change, and related environmental issues are found, on average, on 4% of textbook pages, and variation is large among individual textbooks. Discipline-based trends exist, especially for the energy technologies presented. Addressed separately as a non-renewable, non-fossil fuel, nuclear energy is found on 1% of textbook pages and unfavorably represented. The discussion within these science disciplines has implications on introductory-level education, public perception of science, and informed citizenship.

Yokoyama, H. M. and K. Nakayachi (2014). "Public judgment on science expenditure in the national budget of Japan: An experimental approach to examining the effects of unpacking science." Public Understanding of Science 23(5): 610-626.	How does the public assess an appropriate financial allocation to science promotion? This article empirically examined the subadditivity effect in the judgment of budgetary allocation. Results of the first experiment showed that the ratio of the national budget allocated for science promotion by participants increased when science was decomposed into more specific categories compared to when it was presented as "science promotion" alone. Consistent with these findings, results of the second experiment showed that the allotment ratio to science promotion decreased when the number of other expenditure items increased. Meanwhile, the third experiment revealed that in the case of a budgetary cutback, the total amount taken from science promotion greatly increased when science was decomposed into subcategories. The subadditivity effect and increase in the total allotment ratio by unpacking science promotion was confirmed by these three experiments not only on budgetary allocation but also on budgetary cutback.

Yong, A. G., et al. (2017). "Risk Perception and Disaster Preparedness in Immigrants and Canadian-Born Adults: Analysis of a National Survey on Similarities and Differences." Risk Analysis 37(12): 2321-2333.	Research has documented that immigrants tend to experience more negative consequences from natural disasters compared to native-born individuals, although research on how immigrants perceive and respond to natural disaster risks is sparse. We investigated how risk perception and disaster preparedness for natural disasters in immigrants compared to Canadian-born individuals as justifications for culturally-adapted risk communication and management. To this end, we analyzed the ratings on natural disaster risk perception beliefs and preparedness behaviors from a nationally representative survey (N = 1,089). Factor analyses revealed three underlying psychological dimensions of risk perception: external responsibility for disaster management, self-preparedness responsibility, and illusiveness of preparedness. Although immigrants and Canadian-born individuals shared the three-factor structure, there were differences in the salience of five risk perception beliefs. Despite these differences, immigrants and Canadian-born individuals were similar in the level of risk perception dimensions and disaster preparedness. Regression analyses revealed self-preparedness responsibility and external responsibility for disaster management positively predicted disaster preparedness whereas illusiveness of preparedness negatively predicted disaster preparedness in both groups. Our results showed that immigrants' risk perception and disaster preparedness were comparable to their Canadian-born counterparts. That is, immigrant status did not necessarily yield differences in risk perception and disaster preparedness. These social groups may benefit from a risk communication and management strategy that addresses these risk perception dimensions to increase disaster preparedness. Given the diversity of the immigrant population, the model remains to be tested by further population segmentation.

Yoshizawa, R. (2013). "Pavlov's Dogs and Schrodinger's Cat: Scenes from the Living Laboratory." Public Understanding of Science 22(2): 252-252.
	
You, M., et al. (2017). "Emerging Infectious Disease Content in Newspaper Editorials: Public Health Concern or Leadership Issue?" Science Communication 39(3): 313-337.	We conducted a content analysis of newspaper editorials on the Middle East respiratory syndrome outbreak in Korea. Subject matter, social and personal efficacy information, and affective tone were evaluated using a mixed-methods approach. An analysis of 241 publications with the acronym MERS revealed that public health was the most salient, followed by leadership/governance, coping, medical system, and economic consequences. Societal efficacy information was more frequent than personal efficacy information, and a negative tone was predominant. However, leadership became the most frequent in the later stages. Personal efficacy information decreased over time and across content with a negative tone.

Young, N. and M. Liston (2010). "(Mis)managing a risk controversy: the Canadian salmon aquaculture industry's responses to organized and local opposition." Journal of Risk Research 13(8): 1043-1065.	In the past few years, salmon aquaculture has become one of Canada's most controversial industries. Environmentalist and other oppositional groups have mounted aggressive communications campaigns on issues such as the environmental and health impacts of the industry. In coastal regions, local opinion is divided, with some stakeholders and First Nations (indigenous) groups vehemently opposing the industry, while others see it as an important contributor to stressed coastal economies. In this article, we analyse industry responses to both organized and local opposition. Existing research on risk communication and 'risk issue management' tells us that important strategies for addressing controversy include building public trust, acknowledging the legitimacy of critics and their concerns, engaging in transparent and pro-active risk communication, establishing meaningful partnerships with stakeholders, and ultimately reforming controversial practices. Drawing on an analysis of advocacy materials and transcripts from public hearings into aquaculture, we conclude that the salmon aquaculture industry has been largely unsuccessful in its attempts to blunt criticism from organized oppositional groups, but has taken some important (if tentative) actions to enhance its legitimacy at the local level.

Young, N. and R. Matthews (2007). "Experts' understanding of the public: knowledge control in a risk controversy." Public Understanding of Science 16(2): 123-144.	This paper reverses the common emphasis in the literature on public understanding of science by examining '' experts' understanding of the public.'' This research uses the case of aquaculture in Canada, a highly contested mode of production that has divided the scientific community and public opinion. Using a survey of 300 aquaculture experts in Canada, we examine three dimensions of experts' understanding of public '' contributions '' to this controversy. These are (1) stakeholder participation in aquaculture regulation and policy, (2) the media as an interpreter and communicator of expert claims, and (3) the knowledge and values basis of general public opinion. We find that experts' views on lay knowledge and participation in the debate swing from strongly positive to strongly negative. Using quantitative and qualitative data from the survey, we argue that these swings in experts' views of the public coincide with issues of control over knowledge. Experts on all sides of the aquaculture controversy are markedly open to incorporating lay knowledge into scientific practices (a situation where expert control over knowledge is retained), but are highly critical of lay '' consumption '' of expert claims (a situation where expert control over knowledge is lost).

Ytterstad, A. (2015). "Framing Global Warming: Is That Really the Question? A Realist, Gramscian Critique of the Framing Paradigm in Media and Communication Research." Environmental Communication-a Journal of Nature and Culture 9(1): 1-19.	Framing is a widely used concept in research on communication and climate change. From a Gramscian realist position, this article criticizes underlying assumptions in the framing paradigm itself. The article examines how frames are defined, understood, and theorized in key texts on Anglo-American framing and uses examples from the scholarly literature on climate change communication and the Norwegian media to argue that global warming should not be posed primarily as a question of framing. It argues that the framing paradigm suffers from three main problems: (1) anthropocentrism; (2) a strategic approach to truth; and (3) an underestimation of the importance of latent meaning. Instead of communicative attempts by framing scholars to resonate with a plurality of already manifest, already culturally resonant and already familiar frames in public discourse, the essay suggests that global warming is an ethical challenge which communication scholars can best help solve with a combination of natural realism and political advocacy.

Yu, M., et al. (2012). "Context-Specific, Scenario-Based Risk Scales." Risk Analysis 32(12): 2166-2181.	Reacting to an emergency requires quick decisions under stressful and dynamic conditions. To react effectively, responders need to know the right actions to take given the risks posed by the emergency. While existing research on risk scales focuses primarily on decision making in static environments with known risks, these scales may be inappropriate for conditions where the decision maker's time and mental resources are limited and may be infeasible if the actual risk probabilities are unknown. In this article, we propose a method to develop context-specific, scenario-based risk scales designed for emergency response training. Emergency scenarios are used as scale points, reducing our dependence on known probabilities; these are drawn from the targeted emergency context, reducing the mental resources required to interpret the scale. The scale is developed by asking trainers/trainees to rank order a range of risk scenarios and then aggregating these orderings using a Kemeny ranking. We propose measures to assess this aggregated scale's internal consistency, reliability, and validity, and we discuss how to use the scale effectively. We demonstrate our process by developing a risk scale for subsurface coal mine emergencies and test the reliability of the scale by repeating the process, with some methodological variations, several months later.

Yuan, S. P., et al. (2018). "Does being a jerk work? Examining the effect of aggressive risk communication in the context of science blogs." Journal of Risk Research 21(4): 502-520.	Understanding aggressive risk communication is important because many scientists use this approach and we know little about its effects. Two studies were conducted to assess the effect of exposure to aggressive risk communication by a scientist on respondents' perceptions of risk communication quality, supportive behavior (i.e. forwarding the communication), risk communicator likability, and overall views about scientists. Perceived aggressiveness (studies 1-2) and expectation violation (study 2) were considered as mediators. Analyses suggest both direct and indirect negative effects of aggressive risk communication in the case of likability but potentially positive effects in terms of evaluating the message quality. Moreover, expectation violation provided one possible explanation for the effect of aggression.

Zaalberg, R., et al. (2009). "Prevention, Adaptation, and Threat Denial: Flooding Experiences in the Netherlands." Risk Analysis 29(12): 1759-1778.	Delta areas such as the Netherlands are more and more at risk of future flooding due to global climate change. Motivating residents living in flood-prone areas to effectively cope with local floods may lead to minimization of material losses and loss of life. The aim of this research was to investigate whether the extent to which residents had been exposed to flooding in the past was a key factor in motivating residents to effectively cope with future flooding. We also focused on the psychological variables that mediated this relationship. We conducted a survey (N = 516) among flood victims and nonvictims. We assessed subjective experiences due to past flooding, affective and cognitive appraisals, and coping responses. Results show that victims reported stronger emotions (negative and positive), and the receipt of more social support due to past flooding than did nonvictims. Moreover, victims worry more about future flooding, perceive themselves as more vulnerable to future flooding, perceive the consequences of future flooding as more severe, and have stronger intentions to take adaptive actions in the future than nonvictims. Structural equation modeling reveals that the latter effect was fully mediated by specific experiences and appraisals. Insights into factors and processes that have the potential to motivate residents to effectively cope with future floods may prove helpful in developing interventions to inform residents how to act effectively in case of an imminent flood.

Zajc, J. and K. Erjavec (2014). ""Othering" agricultural biotechnology: Slovenian media representation of agricultural biotechnology." Public Understanding of Science 23(6): 678-687.	While studies on media representations of agricultural biotechnology mostly analyse media texts, this work is intended to fill a research gap with an analysis of journalistic interpretations of media representations. The purpose of this project was to determine how news media represent agricultural biotechnology and how journalists interpret their own representations. A content and critical discourse analysis of news texts published in the Slovenian media over two years and in-depth interviews with their authors were conducted. News texts results suggest that most of the news posts were "othering" biotechnology and biotechnologists: biotechnology as a science and individual scientists are represented as "they," who are socially irresponsible, ignorant, arrogant, and "our" enemies who produce unnatural processes and work for biotechnology companies, whose greed is destroying people, animals, and the environment. Most journalists consider these representations to be objective because they have published the biotechnologists' opinions, despite their own negative attitudes towards biotechnology.

Zaksek, M. and J. L. Arvai (2004). "Toward improved communication about wildland fire: Mental models research to identify information needs for natural resource management." Risk Analysis 24(6): 1503-1514.	The management of natural- and human-induced wildland fires is an intricate process that must balance two considerations: that of fire as a necessary natural disturbance and that of the risks that fire poses. Reconciling tradeoffs between these risks and benefits is contingent upon informed, directed, and two-way communication between wildland fire managers and stakeholders. In an effort to aid with the design of such a communication effort, this study used mental models research to determine the unique wildland fire information and decision-making needs of stakeholders living at the wildland-urban interface of a fire-prone area. While the analysis revealed many similarities in how stakeholders conceptualized the risks and benefits of wildland fire, many misconceptions and important gaps in understanding on the part of both expert and nonexpert respondents were identified.

Zamith, R., et al. (2013). "Constructing Climate Change in the Americas: An Analysis of News Coverage in US and South American Newspapers." Science Communication 35(3): 334-357.	This study examined the portrayal of climate change in four national newspapers from Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, and the United States. The results indicated that leading media in Brazil and the United States highlighted the policy progress being made to mitigate climate change and presented the issue in economic terms, whereas coverage in Argentina and Colombia portrayed the issue as being urgent and emphasized the catastrophic consequences of climate change. The findings are consistent with previous work indicating a lack of focus on scientific controversy from non-U.S. media and present implications for comparative studies examining nuances in international coverage of climate change.

Zarea, M., et al. (2013). "First steps in developing an automated aerial surveillance approach." Journal of Risk Research 16(3-4): 407-420.	Partners in emerging risk representative application (ERRA) A3 Emerging risks related to the industrial use of automated and un-manned surveillance of industrial infrastructure' develop a set of new technologies to automate aerial surveillance by collecting images with a drone and automatically processing them to identify threats to buried oil and gas transmission pipelines. Progress on two aspects is presented, on one hand, technology development, and on the other hand, dealing with the emerging risks associated with these new technologies. Technology development covers three functions assembled in a workflow: center dot Image collection via a light drone with an autonomous navigation system and image geographical positioning system (GPS) referencing capabilities. center dot Image automated pre-processing: image assembly and georeferencing. center dot Threat detection: image analysis by change detection is performed using Definiens software for identifying external interferences like construction work and excavations threatening the pipeline. This set of technologies is perceived as an emerging risk that is appraised from several points of view: center dot Technology: unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), image georeferencing and assembly, change detection for threat identification. center dot Human and Organisational and Communication: investigate the acceptance of this technology by the population and local authorities. center dot Regulatory: check conditions that will ensure acceptance of operational use of light drones in some European countries. center dot This general approach is needed to ensure both technology optimisation and the shortest path to reliable practical applications.

Zarkadakis, G. (2010). "FameLab: A Talent Competition for Young Scientists." Science Communication 32(2): 281-287.	Fame Lab has proven a successful model for developing young scientists as science communicators, as well as for engaging general audiences with science. Originally launched in the United Kingdom, it has transcended cultural and national barriers in nine southeast European countries where it was transferred, and is currently being tested in several more countries across Africa and Asia. It has created a multinational, cross-disciplinary, and multilingual network of young science communicators who, with the support of the Global Forum are developing science communication projects together or are simply exchanging ideas. It has demonstrated that science can generate excitement and interest in audiences of different cultural backgrounds, and that the keys toward achieving this goal are finding the right scientists, with the passion for communicating science, building their capacities, and helping them develop their communication skills further.

Zehr, S. (2008). "Science & certainty." Science Communication 29(4): 534-537.
	
Zehr, S. C. (2000). "Public representations of scientific uncertainty about global climate change." Public Understanding of Science 9(2): 85-103.	This paper addresses the representation of scientific uncertainty about global warming and climate change in the U.S. popular press. An examination of popular press articles about global warming from 1986 to 1995 reveals that scientific uncertainty was a salient theme. The paper describes several forms of uncertainty construction and means through which it was managed. I argue that scientific uncertainty was used to help construct an exclusionary boundary between "the public" and climate change scientists. This rhetorical boundary delegitimated lay knowledge by suggesting that the public did nor hold appropriate reverence for scientific uncertainty and the need for more research.

Zeyer, A. and W. M. Roth (2013). "Post-ecological discourse in the making." Public Understanding of Science 22(1): 33-48.	This article analyses the discourse of 15- to16-year-old Swiss junior high school students in order to understand public discourse on the environment and environmental protection. Discourse analysis reveals four interpretive repertoires as the building blocks for the so-called post-ecological discourse, which can be used to describe important aspects of current ways of talking about ecological issues in Europe. We show that 10 theoretically identifiable dimensions of this discourse can be understood in terms of a mutual interplay between the four interpretive repertoires. Post-ecological discourse in today's (Swiss) society appears to be at its core a loss-of-control-discourse, which leads (in our students) to a latent eco-depression. Thus, the public understanding of science can be affected by unintended consequences of the talk itself (in this case an unintended environmental depression), that is, by the inherent characteristics of the involved repertoires, here especially the so-called folk science repertoire. Fostering public understanding of science is thus not merely a question of providing the public with scientific 'facts'. It is also an issue of paying attention to the available discursive repertoires. If necessary, viable alternative repertoires may have to be offered. In school, for example, conversations about the nature of science, and about complexity and applied ethics might help students learn new interpretive repertoires and how to mobilize these in talking about the environment and environmental protection.

Zhai, G. F. and T. Suzuki (2008). "Effects of risk representation and scope on willingness to pay for reduced risks: Evidence from Tokyo Bay, Japan." Risk Analysis 28(2): 513-522.	When applying the contingent valuation method (CVM) in risk reduction studies, some studies report that willingness to pay (WTP) is insensitive to the magnitude of risk reduction while other studies do not. On the other hand, social-psychological research has shown that the affect heuristic biases judgments on probability, relative frequency, and risk. This article examines both magnitude (or scope) effect and affect heuristic (or representation) effect on WTP for risk reduction measures against tsunamis by introducing two experimental (i.e., absolute and relative) systems with four different representations to evaluate public behaviors in two different scenarios of risk reduction. Two common denominators (100 and 10,000) are introduced into absolute risk reduction representation (i.e., "of every 100 persons, from present 2 deaths to 1") to form different formats (i.e., "of every 10,000 persons from 200 to 100," and "of every 100,000 persons from 2,000 deaths to 1,000"). There is little evidence that WTP estimates are sufficiently sensitive to the magnitude of risk reduction, but relative risk reduction representations may be better than the absolute one given in CVM mail surveys when the risk is small. There is a statistically insignificant effect of risk reduction representations on respondent frequency, but mixed effects on the monetary values of WTP at the level of 0.05. The representation effect of absolute risk reduction on the WTP value varies with the common denominator. The larger the common denominator, the less the WTP to reduce the risk of tsunamis, and the significance probability is improved to less than the level of 0.05 when the common denominator becomes large enough. The findings suggest that improved methods are required for estimating the rates of tradeoff between fatality risk and other goods among consumers.

Zhang, J. Y. (2015). "The "credibility paradox' in China's science communication: Views from scientific practitioners." Public Understanding of Science 24(8): 913-927.	In contrast to increasing debates on China's rising status as a global scientific power, issues of China's science communication remain under-explored. Based on 21 in-depth interviews in three cities, this article examines Chinese scientists' accounts of the entangled web of influence which conditions the process of how scientific knowledge achieves (or fails to achieve) its civic authority. A main finding of this study is a credibility paradox' as a result of the over-politicisation of science and science communication in China. Respondents report that an absence of visible institutional endorsements renders them more public credibility and better communication outcomes. Thus, instead of exploiting formal channels of science communication, scientists interviewed were more keen to act as informal risk communicators' in grassroots and private events. Chinese scientists' perspectives on how to earn public support of their research sheds light on the nature and impact of a civic epistemology' in an authoritarian state.

Zhao, X. Q., et al. (2016). "Partisan differences in the relationship between newspaper coverage and concern over global warming." Public Understanding of Science 25(5): 543-559.	The effects of news media on public opinion about global warming have been a topic of much interest in both academic and popular discourse. Empirical evidence in this regard, however, is still limited and somewhat mixed. This study used data from the 2006 General Social Survey in combination with a content analysis of newspaper coverage of the same time period to examine the relationship between general news climate and public concern about global warming. Results showed a pattern of political polarization, with increased coverage associated with growing divergence between Democrats and Republicans. Further analysis also showed evidence of reactivity in partisan response to coverage from different news outlets. These findings point to a particular form of politically motivated, biased processing of news information.

Zia, A. and A. M. Todd (2010). "Evaluating the effects of ideology on public understanding of climate change science: How to improve communication across ideological divides?" Public Understanding of Science 19(6): 743-761.	While ideology can have a strong effect on citizen understanding of science, it is unclear how ideology interacts with other complicating factors, such as college education, which influence citizens' comprehension of information. We focus on public understanding of climate change science and test the hypotheses: [H(1)] as citizens' ideology shifts from liberal to conservative, concern for global warming decreases; [H(2)] citizens with college education and higher general science literacy tend to have higher concern for global warming; and [H(3)] college education does not increase global warming concern for conservative ideologues. We implemented a survey instrument in California's San Francisco Bay Area, and employed regression models to test the effects of ideology and other socio-demographic variables on citizen concern about global warming, terrorism, the economy, health care and poverty. We are able to confirm H(1) and H(3), but reject H(2). Various strategies are discussed to improve the communication of climate change science across ideological divides.

Zigerell, L. J. (2012). "Science knowledge and biblical literalism." Public Understanding of Science 21(3): 314-322.	Biblical literalists are often described as scientific illiterates, but little if any empirical research has tested this claim. Analysis of a sixteen-item battery from the 2008 US General Social Survey revealed that literalists possess less science knowledge than those with other views of Scripture, but that much of this deficit can be attributed to demographic factors and unequal educational attainment. The marginal direct effect of biblical belief suggests that literalism is not incompatible with knowledge of science and, therefore, the best avenue for increasing science knowledge among literalists may be to foster interest in science and design science courses to attenuate any perceived conflict between science and religion.

Zikmund-Fisher, B. J., et al. (2005). "What's time got to do with it ?<Tau Beta > Inattention to duration in interpretation of survival graphs." Risk Analysis 25(3): 589-595.	Reports of randomized clinical trials often use survival curves to summarize clinical outcomes over time and graphically demonstrate evidence of treatment effectiveness. Survival curves can also be used in patient communications to display how health risks accumulate over time. In a randomized survey experiment, administered online, we tested whether people viewing survival curves appropriately adjust their risk perceptions to account for the duration shown. Internet users (N= 864) were recruited from a demographically balanced U.S. panel. Participants read about a hypothetical disease and then viewed one of four survival graphs that displayed mortality risks with and without treatment. Survival graphs showed either a visually large or visually small difference between treatments and were labeled to represent either 5-year or 15-year risk statistics. Participants then provided ratings of disease seriousness, as well as treatment effectiveness for each possible treatment. Variations in ratings corresponded more with visual dissimilarity than with changes in the statistical risk exhibited, with participants perceiving somewhat greater disease seriousness and significant differences in treatment effectiveness in large visual difference graphs. We conclude that when people interpret survival curves, they often fail to sufficiently account for the timeframe represented and perceive more risk and larger differences when identical risks are displayed over longer periods of time. We recommend that all presentations of survival graphics, whether to patients, physicians, or scientists, emphasize duration information (e.g., in the title) and remind readers that attending to graph axis labels is the only way to pierce these visual illusions.

Zimmerman, B. K. (1999). "The use of genetic information and public accountability." Public Understanding of Science 8(3): 223-240.	With the explosion in new technologies that heralded the end of the 20th century, enabling the rapid gathering and analysis of genetic information from humans and the multitude of other organisms with which they interact on this planet, we are now in a position not only to understand the details of everyone's genetically determined features, but to manipulate them to our own design. The implications of the power of such knowledge are indeed profound, demanding that the developers and users of the technology spawned by this revolution apply it according to the terms of a new social contract to be negotiated with the public at large. The means by which industries and medical practitioners educate the public consumers, and the mechanisms by which the public, through the institutions of democratic government and other modes of communication, makes its concerns and desires a functional part of the equation, are being determined. To establish processes for both, with the flexibility to accommodate individual and collective values that are highly time-dependent, is a major challenge of the 21st century. Applications of genetic data are examined with respect to professional responsibility, the possibility of deliberate misuse, the principle of autonomy, and distributive justice.

Zimmerman, C. (2002). "Science and the citizen: For educators and the public." Public Understanding of Science 11(1): 79-80.
	
Zimmerman, C., et al. (2001). "Science at the supermarket: a comparison of what appears in the popular press, experts' advice to readers, and what students want to know." Public Understanding of Science 10(1): 37-58.	The popular print media constitute a major source of new information about scientific research for the public and for members of the scientific community outside their areas of expertise. Despite the potential importance of media reports to scientific literacy and public awareness of science, little is known about the content of these articles. We sampled the popular print media (e.g., publications such as those sold at a convenience store or supermarket) and found that the majority of articles about scientific research were in the form of news briefs. We analyzed and compared (a) the content of these news briefs, (b) advice given by experts about how to read media reports about science critically, and (c) university students' requests for information as they evaluated brief reports about research. Some marked discrepancies were found. For example, much of the information that experts advised readers to attend to or that students spontaneously requested were infrequently available in news briefs. Our findings have implications for conceptualizing scientific literacy, as well as for changing science journalism and science education in ways that can enable readers to become effective consumers of scientific information.

Zimmerman, C. and K. Cuddington (2007). "Ambiguous, circular and polysemous: students' definitions of the "balance of nature" metaphor." Public Understanding of Science 16(4): 393-406.	The "balance of nature" metaphor has been used to explain the functioning of natural systems from ancient times and continues to be invoked in popular culture, in spite of controversy regarding its use in the scientific community. We demonstrate that undergraduate students in the United States believe this term is descriptive of real ecological systems, and continue to do so after instruction in ecological science. A content analysis of students' definitions of the "balance of nature" and its causes varied widely with multiple, often contradictory, interpretations. A second survey confirmed that the range of definitions generated by students was representative of the larger educated population. Common responses included population regulation, species interactions, absence of disturbance and Nature. We speculate that the lack of a fixed meaning for the balance of nature term could lead to problems in education, public policy, and the transmission of ecological concepts to the general public.

Zimmerman, D. E., et al. (2006). "Communicating forest management science and practices through visualized and animated media approaches to community presentations - An exploration and assessment." Science Communication 27(4): 514-539.	Natural-resource managers have used a variety of computer-mediated presentation methods to communicate management practices to diverse publics. We explored the effects of visualizing and animating predictions from mathematical models in computerized presentations explaining forest succession (forest growth and change through time), fire behavior, and management options. In an experimental design using purposive samples, rural-mountain, town, and student groups gained substantial information from both the visualized, animated presentation and the nonvisualized, nonanimated presentation. Mountain residents gained significantly more information from the visualized and animated presentation than from the nonvisualized and nonanimated presentation.

Zimmerman, R., et al. (2010). "Risk communication for catastrophic events: results from focus groups." Journal of Risk Research 13(7): 913-935.	Focus group methods are adapted here to address two important needs for risk communication: (1) to provide approaches to risk communication in very extreme and catastrophic events, and (2) to obtain risk communication content within the specific catastrophe area of chemical and biological attacks. Focus groups were designed and conducted according to well-established protocols using hypothetical sarin and smallpox attacks resulting in a chemical or biological release in a confined public space in a transit system. These cases were used to identify content for risk communication information and suggest directions for further research in this area. Common procedures for conducting focus groups were used based on an initial review of such procedures. Four focus groups - two for each type of release - each lasted about two hours. Participants were professionals normally involved in emergencies in health, emergency management, and transportation. They were selected using a snowball sampling technique. Examples of findings for approaches to communicating such risks included how information should be organized over time and how space, locations, and places should be defined for releases to anchor perceptions geographically. Examples of findings for risk communication content are based on how professionals reacted to risk communications used during the two hypothetical releases they were presented with and how they suggested using risk communications. These findings have considerable implications for using and structuring focus groups to derive risk communication procedures and types of content to be used in the context of catastrophes.

Zimmerman, R. and M. F. Sherman (2011). "To Leave an Area After Disaster: How Evacuees from the WTC Buildings Left the WTC Area Following the Attacks." Risk Analysis 31(5): 787-804.	How people leave a devastated area after a disaster is critical to understanding their ability to cope with risks they face while evacuating. Knowledge of their needs for communications about these risks is particularly crucial in planning for emergency responses. A convenience sample of 1,444 persons who survived the World Trade Center (WTC) attacks on September 11, 2001 were surveyed to ascertain their initial and ultimate destinations once they had left the buildings, how they arrived there, the role of types of obstacles they encountered, and the need for information and the seeking of other people as potential factors in influencing the process of leaving immediately. This survey was part of a larger, original survey. Results showed differences in how people traveled by mode to initial and ultimate destinations, how immediately they left the area, and factors associated with when they left. How they traveled and when they left were associated with where people lived, their tendency in times of stress to seek out other people including who they knew in the immediate area (e. g., co-workers or friends), the physical conditions surrounding them, and the importance to some of waiting for more information. Many people indicated they did not leave immediately because they had no information about where to go or what services would be available to them. Perceptions and communications about risks they were facing were reflected in the choices they considered in how and when to leave the area. These findings have numerous ramifications for understanding and guiding personal behavior in catastrophic situations.

Zingg, A. and M. Siegrist (2012). "Lay people's and experts' risk perception and acceptance of vaccination and culling strategies to fight animal epidemics." Journal of Risk Research 15(1): 53-66.	To fight highly infectious animal diseases, there are almost exclusively two possible strategies that can be done: vaccination and culling. For effective risk communication and management strategies during a crisis, the risk perception and beliefs of different stakeholders are essential. Risk perception and acceptance of various strategies to fight such animal epidemics are examined for the population, farmers, and veterinarians. Data were gathered from questionnaires sent out to three stakeholder groups. All stakeholders clearly preferred a vaccination strategy to a culling strategy. We found that farmers, although they were expected somehow to be experts, had response patterns more similar to the population than to the veterinarians. As expected, veterinarians perceived less risk and had higher acceptance ratings than the population. We equally found gender differences for lay people and for experts. Therefore, the explanation of differences in risk perception between experts and lay people according to knowledge could clearly be ruled out. We detected differences between men and women concerning their attitudes and moral values, which were the same for lay people and for experts.

Ziporyn, T. (1998). "In her own right: The Institute of Medicine's guide to women's health issues." Public Understanding of Science 7(2): 195-197.
	
Ziporyn, T. (2002). "Health writer's handbook." Public Understanding of Science 11(4): 395-396.
	
Zoeteman, B. C. J., et al. (2010). "Communication management during risk events and crises in a globalised world: Predictability of domestic media attention for calamities." Journal of Risk Research 13(3): 279-302.	While governments are concerned with controlling domestic safety issues and preventing resulting potential societal disruptions, events abroad can trigger similar effects. Globalisation magnifies the media attention for events, domestic and abroad, which poses new challenges for authorities. This paper suggests additional approaches for governments to address such situations. Based on interviews with experts and representatives of authorities and analysis of Dutch media attention for external safety events, this paper identifies criteria that can predict media attention and factors that may contribute to effective policy responses. Both can contribute to help to manage external safety risk events. The study shows that media response is predictable to a certain extent. This insight can be a tool in the wider range of measures for authorities to help manage a crisis situation and in particular strategies to cope with the media.

Zorn, T. E., et al. (2012). "Influence in science dialogue: Individual attitude changes as a result of dialogue between laypersons and scientists." Public Understanding of Science 21(7): 848-864.	Dialogue as a science communication process has been idealized in both practitioner and scholarly literature. However, there is inconsistency in what is meant by dialogue, the forms it should take, and its purported consequences. Empirical research on the experienced benefits of dialogue is limited. The present study addresses this gap by examining attitudinal changes among laypeople and scientists in dialogue on the topic of human biotechnology (HBT). We found that, as a result of participation in dialogue, laypeople's attitudes toward scientists were more positive and scientists' and laypeople's attitudes toward HBT tended to converge. Additionally, laypeople reported increased communicative self-efficacy after the dialogue experience. However, effects in some cases differed by dialogue format. Implications for practice and research are discussed.

